1	"The clinical relevance of angiopoietin-2 (Ang2) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was previously suggested by the association between high Ang2, and shorter  progression-free survival reported in small series of patients. Here, we evaluated Ang2 glycoprotein levels in plasma samples collected from a multicentric cohort of CLL patients (n = 316) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method, and we investigated its prognostic role in relation to time to first treatment (TTFT) and overall survival. Based on a cutoff equal to 2459 pg/mL, we divided our cohort in 2 subsets (high and low Ang2) composing 100 (31.6%) and 216 (68.4%) patients, respectively. High Ang2 was predictive of reduced TTFT (P < .001) and overall survival (P = .002). Multivariate analysis confirmed that high Ang2 was an independent prognosticator for TTFT (hazard ratio = 1.739; 95% confidence interval, 1.059-2.857; P = .029). Significant associations were found between high Ang2 and advanced Binet stages (P < .001), high beta(2)-microglobulin (P < .001), unmutated variable region of immunoglobulin heavy chain gene status (P < .001), high CD38 and zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 expression (P < .001 and P = .003), and intermediate/high cytogenetic risk (P = .005). Moreover, Ang2 added prognostic power to other conventional prognosticators and helped to refine prognosis among  CLL subsets with both high and low vascular endothelial growth factor plasma levels. Ang2 plasma level may be a useful independent prognosticator for CLL."
2	"BACKGROUND: The receptor tyrosine kinase like orphan receptor (ROR)-1 gene is overexpressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Because Stat3 is constitutively activated in CLL and sequence analysis revealed that the ROR1 promoter harbors gamma-interferon activation sequence-like elements typically activated by Stat3, we hypothesized that Stat3 activates ROR1. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Because IL-6 induced Stat3 phosphorylation and upregulated Ror1 protein levels in MM1 cells, we used these cells as a model. We  transfected MM1 cells with truncated ROR1 promoter luciferase reporter constructs and found that IL-6 induced luciferase activity of ROR1-195 and upstream constructs. Co-transfection with Stat3 siRNA reduced the IL-6-induced luciferase  activity, suggesting that IL-6 induced luciferase activity by activating Stat3. EMSA and the ChIP assay confirmed that Stat3 binds ROR1, and EMSA studies identified two Stat3 binding sites. In CLL cells, EMSA and ChIP studies determined that phosphorylated Stat3 bound to the ROR1 promoter at those two ROR1 promoter sites, and ChIP analysis showed that Stat3 co-immunoprecipitated DNA of  STAT3, ROR1, and several Stat3-regulated genes. Finally, like STAT3-siRNA in MM1  cells, STAT3-shRNA downregulated STAT3, ROR1, and STAT3-regulated genes and Stat3 and Ror1 protein levels in CLL cells. CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Our data suggest that constitutively activated Stat3 binds to the ROR1 promoter and activates ROR1 in CLL cells."
3	"BACKGROUND: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) pathogenesis has been linked to the prolonged survival and/or apoptotic resistance of leukemic B cells in vivo, and is thought to be due to enhanced survival signaling responses to environmental factors that protect CLL cells from spontaneous and chemotherapy-induced death. Although normally associated with cell migration, the chemokine, CXCL12, is one of the factors known to support the survival of CLL cells. Thus, the signaling pathways activated by CXCL12 and its receptor, CXCR4,  were investigated as components of these pathways and may represent targets that  if inhibited, could render resistant CLL cells more susceptible to chemotherapy. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To determine the downstream signaling targets that contribute to the survival effects of CXCL12 in CLL, we took a phosphoproteomics approach to identify and compare phosphopeptides in unstimulated and CXCL12-stimulated primary CLL cells. While some of the survival  pathways activated by CXCL12 in CLL are known, including Akt and ERK1/2, this approach enabled the identification of additional signaling targets and novel phosphoproteins that could have implications in CLL disease and therapy. In addition to the phosphoproteomics results, we provide evidence from western blot  validation that the tumor suppressor, programmed cell death factor 4 (PDCD4), is  a previously unidentified phosphorylation target of CXCL12 signaling in all CLL cells probed. Additionally, heat shock protein 27 (HSP27), which mediates anti-apoptotic signaling and has previously been linked to chemotherapeutic resistance, was detected in a subset (approximately 25%) of CLL patients cells examined. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Since PDCD4 and HSP27 have previously been associated with cancer and regulation of cell growth and apoptosis, these proteins may have  novel implications in CLL cell survival and represent potential therapeutic targets. PDCD4 also represents a previously unknown signaling target of chemokine receptors; therefore, these observations increase our understanding of alternative pathways to migration that may be activated or inhibited by chemokines in the context of cancer cell survival."
4	"The availability of safe and effective monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) has dramatically altered treatment strategies for B-cell malignancies. Rituximab, a type I chimeric anti-CD20 mAb, not only has activity against a broad range of CD20-positive B-cell malignancies but also, when combined with chemotherapy or other biologic agents, has improved response rates; in addition, in certain situations, progression-free survival and even overall survival may be prolonged. Recently, other anti-CD20 mAbs have been developed to improve on the activity achieved with rituximab or to demonstrate efficacy in patients whose diseases are resistant to rituximab. The most extensively studied of these is ofatumumab, a type I human antibody that binds to a different epitope of CD20 than rituximab. Preclinical data suggest improved complement-dependent cytotoxicity and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity compared with rituximab. In early clinical trials, ofatumumab demonstrated single-agent activity against chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and a number of histologies of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. This antibody was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of CLL that is resistant to both fludarabine and alemtuzumab. Additional study is ongoing with ofatumumab in combination with chemotherapy and biologic agents to further enhance its efficacy. Ofatumumab offers another effective agent with which to improve the outcome of patients with B-cell malignancies."
5	"In somatic cells, eroded telomeres can induce DNA double-strand break signaling,  leading to a form of replicative senescence or apoptosis, both of which are barriers to tumorigenesis. However, cancer cells might display telomere dysfunctions which in conjunction with defects in DNA repair and apoptosis, enables them to circumvent these pathways. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells exhibit telomere dysfunction, and a subset of these cells are resistant to  DNA damage-induced apoptosis and display short telomeres. We show here that these cells exhibit significant resection of their protective telomeric 3' single-stranded overhangs and an increased number of telomere-induced foci containing gammaH2AX and 53BP1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence experiments demonstrated increased levels of telomeric Ku70 and phospho-S2056-DNA-PKcs, 2 essential components of the mammalian nonhomologous end-joining DNA repair system. Notably, these CLL cells display deletions of telomeric signals on one or 2 chromatids in parallel with 11q22 deletions, or with 13q14 deletions associated with another chromosomal aberration or with a complex karyotype. Taken together, our results indicate that a subset of CLL cells from patients with an unfavorable clinical outcome harbor a novel type of chromosomal aberration resulting from telomere dysfunction."
6	"Recent observations of the deregulated expression of several dipeptidyl peptidase (DP) IV-like enzymes in human cancers have led to presumptions of their pathogenic role in cancer. To further explore this concept we have characterized  the expression of all DPIV-like enzymes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We have demonstrated the constitutive expression of DPIV, DP8, DP9, DPII and PEP mRNA and DPIV, DP8 and DP9 protein in CLL. FAP mRNA was not detected in CLL or normal B-lymphocytes. This correlated with an absence of FAP protein on the cell  surface. This study also shows that DP8 mRNA expression is significantly upregulated in CLL compared to normal tonsil B-lymphocytes (p < 0.05) which may suggest biological importance in this disease. DP expression could not be correlated with any molecular or clinical prognostic markers for CLL in this cohort including IgVH mutational status, CD38, ZAP-70 or CD49d expression (n = 58). However, the constitutive expression of the DPIV-like enzymes in CLL and their emergence as potent immune regulators makes them candidate therapeutic targets in this disease."
7	"Deletions of the long arm of chromosome 5 [del(5q)] are frequent chromosome aberrations with known prognosis in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), they are rare and have been reported only as karyotypic results without known prognosis. In the present study, we report a novel conventional and molecular cytogenetic study of  two CLL patients carrying interstitial del(5q) in order to contribute to the identification of rare recurrent aberrations and their prognostic impact in CLL.  Karyotypic and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis that used probes for the most common aberrations of CLL demonstrated that del(5q) was the sole chromosome abnormality in both patients at the time of diagnosis. None of these patients had a history of exposure to chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Both patients had disease that was still staged as Binet A at 28 and 18 months after diagnosis, respectively, without receiving any therapy because of their good clinical condition. Therefore, it could be suggested that del(5q) may not be associated with an adverse prognosis in CLL and is not related with therapy-induced chromosome changes. Further studies are required to elucidate the prognostic value of these deletions in more CLL patients, which could be advisable for prognostic and therapeutic purposes, as well as to identify candidate genes that  may potentially play a role in the pathogenesis of CLL."
8	"Reciprocal IGH/14q32 translocations are detectable in 55-70% of patients with plasma cell myeloma; e.g., the adverse t(4;14)(p16;q32) fusing the IGH and FGFR3  genes (immunoglobulin heavy chain/fibroblast growth factor receptor 3). In a minority of patients with B-lineage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), reciprocal IGH/14q32 translocations have been reported as well. We describe the occurrence of a t(4;14)(p16;q32) in two lymphoma patients showing the immunophenotype of B-CLL, which, to our knowledge, is the first report on such an association. The first patient, a 72-year-old female, showed mature lymphocyte infiltration of the bone marrow and marked splenomegaly. Immunophenotyping revealed aberrant CD5 expression and light-chain lambda restriction on mature B-lymphocytes corresponding to a B-CLL. Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) plus chromosome banding revealed a t(4;14)(p16;q32) in addition to an unbalanced der(16)t(8;16)(q23;p13) and a del(8)(p11). The second patient, a male of 65 years, showed marked peripheral leukocytosis. Immunophenotyping revealed the phenotype of CLL/PLL (chronic lymphocytic leukemia/prolymphocytic leukemia). Again, FISH together with karyotyping revealed a t(4;14)(p16;q32). These two cases with an t(4;14), but the immunophenotype of B-CLL, demonstrate the genetic variability of B-cell lymphomas and the potential  of specific metaphase cultivation techniques using oligonucleotides to increase our insights in the genetic pathways of these heterogeneous disorders."
9	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has an incidence 4/1,00,000 people in the western world and is one of the first cancers reported to be associated with deregulated miRNA expression. microRNAs are small non coding RNAs that are important regulators of protein expression through binding to their untranslated  3'-UTR region. The miR-34 family was demonstrated to be induced by the tumor suppressor p53 and to elicit p53-like responses like senescence, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis depending on the cell type. We have shown in a recent paper  that miR-34a is severely increased in the TCL1-mouse model of CLL. This finding was reflected in human CLL. Moreover, it is demonstrated that its expression is dependent on the presence of the SNP309 in the intronic promoter of the MDM2 gene. In addition, low miR-34a expression was associated with shorter time to treatment (log-rank p = 0.003) in CLL. When reintroduced into CLL cells, miR-34a  was able to induce apoptosis. Interestingly, this was dependent on an intact p53  pathway. Here, we present data showing that knockdown of p53 in HCT-116 cells severely reduces miR-34a induced apoptosis. In conclusion, miR-34a is proposed as a marker for the activity of the p53 pathway in CLL."
10	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic B-cell lymphoma (CLL/B-SLL) is a neoplasm of B-cell lymphocytes that occurs frequently in the older population as an asymptomatic elevation of the white blood cell count (WBC) and has a good overall prognosis. Malignant melanoma of the skin is a neoplasm derived from cutaneous melanocytes that frequently arises among the elderly and,  depending on certain histopathologic features, may metastasize loco-regionally or distally. However, only one report describes synchronous presentation of these two malignancies within the same lymph node. In this report, we present the unique case of an 87-year-old male with a presumed history of indolent CLL/B-SLL, in which metastatic malignant melanoma and CLL/B-SLL both involved 112 of 145 dissected regional lymph nodes. Possible explanations regarding the mechanisms that can lead to this rare presentation of both CLL/B-SLL and melanoma in the same lymph nodes are discussed."
11	"Bendamustine is an anti-neoplastic agent approved by the FDA in 2008 for use as monotherapy or in combination with other agents to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and progressed indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). In clinical trials and post-marketing safety reports administration of bendamustine  with drugs that have known adverse reactions (i.e., allopurinol, rituximab) has been associated with rash, toxic skin reactions, and bullous exanthems. Here, we  describe a patient with NHL who developed a severe cutaneous reaction associated  with the administration of bendamustine. The severity of this drug eruption identifies an important adverse reaction with this drug and a potential cause for patient morbidity."
14	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), the most common leukemia in the Western world, occurs in two forms, aggressive (showing for the most part high ZAP-70 expression and unmutated IgH V(H)) and indolent (showing low ZAP-70 expression and mutated IgH V(H)). We found that miR-29a is up-regulated in indolent human B-CLL as compared with aggressive B-CLL and normal CD19(+) B cells. To study the role of miR-29 in B-CLL, we generated Emu-miR-29 transgenic mice overexpressing miR-29 in mouse B cells. Flow cytometric analysis revealed a  markedly expanded CD5(+) population in the spleen of these mice starting at 2 mo  of age, with 85% (34/40) of miR-29 transgenic mice exhibiting expanded CD5(+) B-cell populations, a characteristic of B-CLL. On average, 50% of B cells in these transgenic mice were CD5 positive. At 2 y of age the mice showed significantly enlarged spleens and an increase in the CD5(+) B-cell population to approximately 100%. Of 20 Emu-miR-29 transgenic mice followed to 24-26 mo of age, 4 (20%) developed frank leukemia and died of the disease. These results suggest that dysregulation of miR-29 can contribute to the pathogenesis of indolent B-CLL."
16	"Autoimmune cytopenias (AIC) are frequent in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients, but risk factors and prognostic relevance of these events are controversial. Data about the influence on AIC of biological prognostic markers,  as ZAP-70, are scanty. We retrospectively evaluated AIC in 290 CLL patients tested for ZAP-70 expression by immunohistochemistry on bone marrow biopsy at presentation. They were 185 men, median age 63 years, 77.9% Binet stage A, 17.6%  B and 4.5% C. AIC occurred in 46 patients (16%): 31 autoimmune hemolytic anemias, 10 autoimmune thrombocytopenias, four Evans syndromes, and one pure red cell aplasia. Of the 46 cases of AIC, 37 (80%) occurred in ZAP-70 positive patients and nine (20%) in ZAP-70 negatives. ZAP-70 expression [Hazard Ratio (HR) = 7.42;  95% confidence interval (CI): 2.49-22.05] and age >65 years (HR = 5.41; 95% CI: 1.67-17.49) resulted independent risk factors for AIC. Among the 136 patients evaluated both for ZAP-70 expression and IGHV status, the occurrence of AIC was higher in ZAP-70 positive/IGHV unmutated cases (35%) than in patients ZAP-70 negative/IGHV mutated (6%) or discordant for the two parameters (4%; P < 0.0001). In ZAP-70 positive patients, occurrence of AIC negatively influenced survival (HR = 1.75; 95% CI: 1.06-2.86). The high risk of developing AIC in ZAP-70 positive CLL, particularly when IGHV unmutated, should be considered in the clinical management."
18	"Cavitary pneumonia caused by Rhodococcus equi may occur in patients with defective cell-mediated immunity. Prolonged CD4 lymphopenia may develop in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who receive fludarabine. The authors report the first case of a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who developed R equi pneumonia after fludarabine therapy."
19	"INTRODUCTION: Angiogenesis is a physiologic process of new blood vessels formation mediated by various cytokines called proangiogenic and antiangiogenic factors. Enhancement of angiogenesis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been recognized more recently. Our study assesses CD34 and von Willebrand factor  (vWf) expression and microvessel density (MVD) in the bone marrow of patients with CLL. AIMS: (1) To assess bone marrow MVD in CLL using 2 different monoclonal antibodies, CD34 and vWf; and (2) To examine the possible association of marrow MVD and clinical course, pattern of marrow infiltration, Rai stage, CD38 positivity, and cytogenetic abnormalities detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Bone marrow specimens from 33 patients with CLL and 10 controls were studied. A single microvessel was defined as any vessel with a clear lumen. The screening of the slides was carried out by hotspot method. The slides were initially screened at low power to identify the areas with highest number of microvessel or vascularity hotspot. The count of microvessel in a sufficiently extended field (40x objective lens, 10x ocular lens) was then performed. The mean value of 10 most vascularized areas at 400x field was considered as MVD for a sample. RESULTS: There was a significant difference between MVD counts according to the antibody used. MVD was higher using CD34 versus vWF (CD34: mean +/- SD, 35.91+/-15.7; 95% confidence interval of mean, 30.34-41.48 vessels/field versus vWF: 8.15+/-4.65; 95% confidence interval of mean, 4.11-12.44 vessels/field; P<0.0001]. Bone marrow MVD detected by CD34 was significantly higher in patients  with CD38 expression more than 30% (P=0.006) and in patients with unfavorable cytogenetic abnormalities. However, no significant MVD differences were detected  between CLL subgroups with regard to clinical course, pattern of marrow infiltration, and Rai stage. Bone marrow MVD in patients with CLL was significantly higher than that in controls (P<0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: MVD assessment using anti-CD34 resulted in higher MVD counts than when using anti-vWF antibody. However, no MVD differences were detected between CLL subgroups subdivided according to the above-mentioned prognostic factors except CD38 expression and genetic abnormalities."
21	"A better knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that govern leukocyte trafficking  is of major relevance for the clinics. Both normal and pathologic extravasation of lymphocytes are a fine-tuned spatio-temporal event of migratory path-finding likely regulated by molecular guidance cues underlying cell movements in other systems. We have recently reported that members of the Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases, namely EphA2 and one of its ligands, ephrin-A4 (EFNA4) can mediate in the traffic of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells and presumably of normal B cells between the blood and the tissues. The importance of EphA2-EFNA4 interactions at the endothelium-lymphocyte interface during TEM could rely on their attractive/repulsive properties. In the present work, we expand on  those results by including additional insights and new suggestions for future studies that discuss the relevance of these molecules in overall cell adhesion dynamic events."
22	"PURPOSE: There is evidence that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a critical microenvironmental factor that exerts angiogenesis-independent effects on the survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Vatalanib and pazopanib are potent orally available VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. We investigated the efficacy and selectivity of both compounds in CLL cells, simulated potential combination with conventional cytostatics, and tested the effect of both substances on CLL-like tumor xenografts. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Primary CLL and normal peripheral blood cells were tested for viability after incubation with varying concentrations of both inhibitors. Further, phosphorylation status of VEGF receptor on treatment, caspase activation, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage were assessed. Combinations  of each inhibitor with fludarabine, vincristine, and doxorubicin were analyzed for possible synergistic effects in vitro. For in vivo testing, mice grafted with the CLL-like cell line JVM-3 were treated orally with each inhibitor. RESULTS: Vatalanib and pazopanib decreased phosphorylation of the VEGF receptor,  along with induction of apoptosis in CLL cells in clinically achievable concentrations. Healthy B cells were only mildly affected. Immunoblots showed downregulation of the antiapoptotic proteins XIAP and MCL1, whereas poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage was increased. Combinations with conventional cytostatic agents resulted in synergistic effects. Treatment of xenografted mice with 100 mg/kg of body weight for 21 days resulted in tumor inhibition rates of 76% (vatalanib) and 77% (pazopanib). In two mice, a total tumor eradication could be observed. No gross systemic toxicity occurred. CONCLUSION: We conclude that VEGF inhibition is a promising new therapeutic approach in CLL. Vatalanib and pazopanib seem to be effective and safe candidates to be further evaluated for this purpose."
23	"Hematologic malignancies account for a substantial percentage of cancers worldwide, and the heterogeneity and biological characteristics of leukemias and  lymphomas present unique therapeutic challenges. Although treatment options exist for most of these diseases, many types remain incurable and the emergence of drug resistance is pervasive. Thus, novel treatment approaches are essential to improve outcome. Nearly half of the agents used in cancer therapy today are either natural products or derivatives of natural products. The enormous chemical diversity in nature, coupled with millennia of biological selection, has generated a vast and underexplored reservoir of unique chemical structures with biologic activity. This review will describe the investigation and application of natural products derived from higher plants in the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma and the rationale behind these efforts. In addition to the approved vinca alkaloids and the epipodophyllotoxin derivatives, a number of other plant compounds have shown promise in clinical trials and in preclinical investigations. In particular, we will focus on the discovery and biological evaluation of the plant-derived agent silvestrol, which shows potential for additional development as a new therapeutic agent for B-cell malignancies including chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
24	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Families with multiple individuals affected with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other related B-cell tumors have been described in the literature and strong familial aggregation has been seen in population studies. However, predisposing germline mutations have not been identified. We will discuss the spectrum of conditions associated with CLL in families and the advances in identifying the underlying susceptibility genes. RECENT FINDINGS: Familial CLL does not appear to differ substantially from sporadic CLL in terms of prognostic markers and clinical outcome, although it may be associated with more indolent disease. The precursor condition, monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis, also aggregates in CLL families. Linkage studies have been  conducted in high-risk CLL families to screen the whole genome for susceptibility loci but no gene mutations have yet been identified by this method. Association studies of candidate genes have implicated several genes as being important in CLL but more studies are needed. Results from whole-genome association studies are promising. SUMMARY: The ability to conduct large-scale genomic studies in unrelated CLL patients and in high-risk CLL families will play an important role in detecting susceptibility genes for CLL over the next few years and thereby help to delineate causal pathways."
25	"Ofatumumab is a type I fully human monoclonal antibody (IgG1) that binds to a unique epitope on the human CD20 molecule expressed on the surface of B cells. It binds specifically to both the small and large extracellular loops of the CD20 molecule. A phase I-II study demonstrated that ofatumumab was well tolerated and  resulted in objective responses. In a phase II study of ofatumumab in fludarabine- and alemtuzumab-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or fludarabine-refractory CLL with bulky (> 5 cm) lymphadenopathy, the response rates were 58% and 47%, respectively. This study led to accelerated approval of ofatumumab by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of CLL refractory to fludarabine and alemtuzumab. In a phase II study of ofatumumab with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in untreated CLL, patients were randomized to ofatumumab 500 mg (group A) or 1000 mg (group B) (initial dose, 300 mg, both groups), combined with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. The higher ofatumumab dose resulted in a higher complete response (CR) rate (50%), compared to the lower-dose ofatumumab group (CR, 32%) (overall response rates, 77% and 73%, respectively). A phase III study of ofatumumab combined with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide versus fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in relapsed CLL are ongoing, as well as several clinical trials of ofatumumab. Ofatumumab has significant antileukemic activity and ongoing clinical trials will determine the  role of ofatumumab in CLL."
26	"Recently, we reported that IL-21 induces granzyme B (GzmB) and GzmB-dependent apoptosis in malignant CD5(+) B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Several autoimmune diseases (AD) are associated with enhanced frequencies of CD5(+) B cells. Since AD are also associated with elevated IL-21 and GzmB levels, we postulated a link between CD5(+) B cells, IL-21 and GzmB. Here, we demonstrate that IL-21 and GzmB serum levels are highly correlated in subjects with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and that freshly isolated CD5(+) SLE B cells constitutively express GzmB. IL-21 directly induced GzmB expression and secretion by CD5(+) B cells from several AD and from cord blood in vitro, and the simultaneous presence of BCR stimulation strongly enhanced this process. Furthermore, IL-21 suppressed both viability and expansion of CD5(+) B cells from SLE individuals. In summary, our study may explain the elevated levels of IL-21 and GzmB in SLE and other AD. Moreover, our data suggest that IL-21 may have disease-modifying characteristics by inducing GzmB in CD5(+) B cells and by suppressing their expansion. Our results provide the rationale for further evaluation of the therapeutic potential of IL-21 in certain AD such as SLE."
27	"BACKGROUND: A pharmacokinetically derived schedule of flavopiridol administered as a 30 min intravenous bolus followed by 4-hour continuous intravenous infusion  (IVB/CIVI) is active in fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia, but  no studies examining the feasibility and maximum tolerated dose of this schedule  have been reported in acute leukemia. DESIGN AND METHODS: We conducted a phase I dose escalation trial of single-agent  flavopiridol in adults with relapsed/refractory acute leukemias, utilizing a modification of the intravenous bolus/continuous intravenous infusion approach, intensifying treatment for administration on days 1, 2, and 3 of 21-day cycles. RESULTS: Twenty-four adults with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (n=19) or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n=5) were enrolled. The median age was 62 years (range, 23-78). The maximum tolerated dose of flavopiridol was 40 mg/m(2) intravenous bolus plus 60 mg/m(2) continuous intravenous infusion (40/60). The dose limiting toxicity was secretory diarrhea. Life-threatening hyperacute tumor  lysis syndrome requiring hemodialysis on day 1 was observed in one patient. Pharmacokinetics were dose-dependent with increased clearance observed at the two highest dose levels. Diarrhea occurrence and severity significantly correlated with flavopiridol concentrations at the end of the 4-hour infusion, volume of distribution, and elimination half-life. Modest anti-leukemic activity was observed, with most patients experiencing dramatic but transient reduction/clearance of circulating blasts lasting for 10-14 days. One refractory  acute myeloid leukemia patient had short-lived complete remission with incomplete count recovery. CONCLUSIONS: Flavopiridol as a single agent given by intravenous bolus/continuous intravenous infusion causes marked, immediate cytoreduction in relapsed/refractory acute leukemias, but objective clinical responses were uncommon. With this schedule, the dose is limited by secretory diarrhea."
29	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a neoplastic disorder that arises largely as a result of defective apoptosis leading to chemoresistance. Stromal cell-derived factor-1 and its receptor, CXCR4, have been shown to play an important role in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell trafficking and survival. DESIGN AND METHODS: Since histone acetylation is involved in the modulation of gene expression, we evaluated the effects of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, on chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells and in particular on cell survival, CXCR4 expression, migration, and drug sensitization. RESULTS: Here, we showed that treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (20  microM) for 48 hours induced a decrease in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell viability via apoptosis (n=20, P=0.0032). Using specific caspase inhibitors, we demonstrated the participation of caspases-3, -6 and -8, suggesting an activation of the extrinsic pathway. Additionally, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid significantly decreased CXCR4 mRNA (n=10, P=0.0010) and protein expression (n=40, P<0.0001). As a result, chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell migration in response to stromal cell-derived factor-1 (n=23, P<0.0001) or through bone marrow stromal  cells was dramatically impaired. Consequently, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid reduced the protective effect of the microenvironment and thus sensitized chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells to chemotherapy such as fludarabine. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid induces apoptosis in  chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells via the extrinsic pathway and down-regulates CXCR4 expression leading to decreased cell migration. Suberoylanilide hydroxamic  acid in combination with other drugs represents a promising therapeutic approach  to inhibiting migration, chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell survival and potentially overcoming drug resistance."
30	"We propose a report on automatic classification of three common types of malignant lymphoma: chronic lymphocytic leukemia, follicular lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma. The goal was to find patterns indicative of lymphoma malignancies  and allowing classifying these malignancies by type. We used a computer vision approach for quantitative characterization of image content. A unique two-stage approach was employed in this study. At the outer level, raw pixels were transformed with a set of transforms into spectral planes. Simple (Fourier, Chebyshev, and wavelets) and compound transforms (Chebyshev of Fourier and wavelets of Fourier) were computed. Raw pixels and spectral planes were then routed to the second stage (the inner level). At the inner level, the set of multipurpose global features was computed on each spectral plane by the same feature bank. All computed features were fused into a single feature vector. The  specimens were stained with hematoxylin (H) and eosin (E) stains. Several color spaces were used: RGB, gray, CIE-L*a*b*, and also the specific stain-attributed H&E space, and experiments on image classification were carried out for these sets. The best signal (98%-99% on earlier unseen images) was found for the HE, H, and E channels of the H&E data set."
31	"BACKGROUND: The ectopic expression of receptor tyrosine kinase Ror1 has been reported in patients with hematological malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic  leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Here we report, for the first time, expression of ROR1 gene in both tumor tissues and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from patients with renal cancer (RC). METHODS: In the current study, the expression of ROR1 gene was semi-quantitatively measured in PBMC and tumor tissues from 16 RC patients as well as PBMC from 22 healthy individuals relative to the expression of the housekeeping gene phosphoglucomutase 1 by RT-PCR. RESULTS: Our results showed that ROR1 was expressed at gene level in 81.3 percent of renal tumor tissues (13 out of 16) whereas it was expressed in 94 percent of PBMC from RC patients (15 out of 16). A weak expression of ROR1 was observed in PBMC of 4 out of 22 healthy individual. A significant expression of ROR1 was observed in PBMC from RC patients when compared to that in PBMC from normal healthy individuals (P less than 0.001). The expression of ROR1 in PBMC may reflect a shedding of tumor cells into blood stream. CONCLUSION: We conclude that detection of a high level of ROR1 expression in blood cells might assist in early detection of renal malignancies, providing taking into consideration the clinical symptoms of the disease."
32	"We have recently shown that the gene encoding the truncated form of protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor-type O (PTPROt) expressed predominantly in hematopoietic cells is epigenetically silenced in human primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). To determine whether increased phosphorylation of the PTPROt substrates following PTPROt suppression alters signal transduction pathway(s) that impart a growth advantage to the leukemic lymphocytes, it is critical to discern the key substrates of PTPROt. Here, we used substrate-trapping assay to identify two novel substrates of PTPROt, the tyrosine kinases Lyn and ZAP70. Both Lyn and ZAP70 were dephosphorylated by wild-type PTPROt, but not by its catalytic site (CS) mutant. A critical phosphorylation site in Lyn, Y397, essential for its activity was dephosphorylated by PTPROt. Consequently, the activity of Lyn kinase was compromised when co-expressed with PTPROt-WT compared to vector control or upon co-expression with PTPROt-CS. Ectopic expression of PTPROt in Raji cells reduced phosphorylation of Lyn in the  absence of any change in its protein levels. These results have revealed the physiological importance of PTPROt in regulating B-cell receptor signaling at Lyn kinase. Further, ectopic expression of PTPROt also sensitized the cells to the VEGF-R inhibitor Pazopanib."
33	"The aim of this study is to analyze a group of patients with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders associated with B, C, D hepatitis viral infection.  This group of chronic lymphoproliferative disordered patients with associated hepatitis viral infection has been diagnosed and monitored in the Hematology Department of the University Emergency Hospital of Bucharest, between December 2007 and January 2009. Our study is meant to observe the influence of the viral infection on clinical and biological evolution of the enrolled patients. The diagnosis of the chronic lymphoproliferative disorder was based on the bone marrow/ lymph node biopsy and flow-cytometry analysis. The positive diagnosis for hepatitis viral infection was established by ELISA serological tests and viremia  was performed by TaqMan method at INBI "Matei Bals" Bucharest. The analyzed group is made up of 41 patients, 25/41 (60.97%) females and 16/41 (39.02%) males, with  ages: 20-50 years old--6/41 (14.63%), 51-70 years old--23/41 (56.09%) and over 71 years old--12/41 (29.26%) patients. The histological types of CLD: B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma--in 28/41 (68.29%) patients, T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma--2/41 (4.87%) patients, Hodgkin's lymphoma--2/41 (4.87%), chronic lymphocytic leukemia--7/41 (17.07%), Waldenström disease--2/41 (4.87%) patients.  Regarding the type of CLD, 19/41 (46.34%) of the patients have an aggressive type of CLD and 22/41 (53.65%) a non-aggressive type of CLD. The hepatitis viral infection distribution in our patients: 14/41 (34.14%) have HBV infection, 24/41  (58.53%) have HCV infection, double/triple association of viral infection was found in 3/41 (7.31%) patients. Within HBV infection subgroup 9/14 (64.28%) patients have an aggressive type of CLD and 5/14 (35,71%) patients have a non-aggressive type, whereas within the group with HCV infection we found a different distribution: 9/24 (37,5%) patients with aggressive type and 15/24 (62.5%) with non-aggressive type of CLD. The clinical parameters monitored were:  B signs were present in 19/41 (43.34%) patients, the superficial or profound adenopathies--were found in 29/41 (70,73%) patients, hepatomegaly--in 38/41 (92,68%) patients, splenomegaly--in 21/41 (51.21%) patients, extra-nodal involvements in 10/41 (24,39%) patients and most frequent in the non-aggressive type of CLD--6/10 (60%) patients. The hematological and biochemical parameters were: the presence of anemia and thrombocytopenia--found in a small number of patients; lymphocytosis--positive in 33/41 (80.48%) patients, most with HCV infection and non-aggressive type of disease, the presence of autoimmune hemolytic anemia--in 4/41 (9.75%) patients, cryoglobulins--8/41 (19.51%) patients, all with HCV infection; also the liver function was monitored. Antiviral therapy was administered to 12/41 (29.26%) patients--Lamivudine to 8/41 (19.51%) patients and Ribavirine/Interferon to 4/41 (9.75%) patients. Chemotherapy was given in 32/41 (78%) patients. Monoclonal antibodies anti CD20 (Rituximab) therapy was associated in 6/41 (14.63%) patients.CONCLUSIONS: A high  incidence in female sex of over 50 years old was noticed. A strong association between B-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorders and hepatitis viral infection B, C, D was revealed, the most frequent being the C hepatitis virus, associated with the non-aggressive type of CLD, extra-nodal involvement, splenomegaly, lymphocytosis, cryoglobulins, cytolysis and colestasis. The clinical and biological disease history will be monitored during chemotherapy and antiviral treatment."
34	"Fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia is associated with poor survival rates. Chemoimmunotherapy combinations that include purine analogs, alkylating agents, and monoclonal antibodies have shown the highest response rates to date. Intensive treatment approaches can be associated with poor tolerability that is often characterized by deteriorating immune functions and high infection rates. Treatment with some monoclonal antibodies is often complicated by infusion-related adverse events and increased risk of infections.  Several novel agents are currently being investigated for this difficult-to-treat patient population. Ofatumumab is an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that targets a different epitope from the one targeted by rituximab and, it has shown promising  antileukemia activity. Lenalidomide is an immunomodulatory agent that has shown promising activity in patients with fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia, many of whom had poor prognostic features and bulky disease. Encouraging results have been observed with each of these agents individually. However, given the diverse mechanisms governing CLL pathogenesis and disease progression, ongoing clinical trials combinations of these agents may improve clinical outcomes for this patient population."
35	"Statins and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are among the most commonly prescribed medications. In vitro studies suggest that statins and NSAIDs may have potential as anticancer therapies in low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphomas including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and a recent observational study found statin use was associated with improved event free survival in patients with follicular lymphoma. Other studies have suggested that statins reduce the efficacy of rituximab by inhibiting binding to CD20. We therefore conducted an observational cohort study of 686 patients with newly diagnosed Rai stage 0 CLL to evaluate whether statin or NSAID use was related to their clinical outcome or  influenced the efficacy of rituximab therapy. At diagnosis, 136 (20%) patients took statins and 230 (34%) scheduled daily aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen. No difference in time to treatment was observed based on statin or NSAID use. Among  patients receiving a rituximab-containing first-line therapy, no difference in time to salvage treatment was observed based on statin use. Although previous studies suggested statins may improve event free survival among patients with follicular lymphoma, we find no impact of statins on time to initial therapy in this large study of patients with Rai stage 0 CLL. The in vitro observation that  statins reduce rituximab efficacy does not appear to have clinical significance in CLL care."
37	"CD38 is an ecto-enzyme that hydrolyzes NAD. Its expression is a prognostic marker for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We have characterized individual variation in CD38 expression in lymphoblastoid cell lines from 288 healthy subjects of three ethnicities. Expression varied widely, with significant differences among ethnic  groups, and was correlated significantly with CD38 enzymatic activity and protein levels. The CD38 gene was then resequenced using DNA from the same cell lines, with the identification of 53 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and one indel, 39 novel. One SNP, rs1130169, was significantly associated with CD38 mRNA  expression and explained a portion of the difference in expression among ethnic groups. EMS assay showed nuclear protein binding at or near this SNP. We also determined that variation in CD38 expression in these cell lines was associated with variation in antineoplastic drug sensitivity. These results represent a step toward understanding mechanisms involved in CD38 expression."
38	"Alemtuzumab is a recombinant humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody directed against  CD52, an antigen expressed on the surface of normal and malignant B and T lymphocytes. Alemtuzumab is approved for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), but the exact mechanism by which the antibody depletes malignant lymphocytes in vivo is not clearly defined. To address this issue, the anti-tumor activity of alemtuzumab was studied in disseminated and subcutaneous xenograft tumor models. The density of CD52 target antigen on the surface of tumor cells appeared to correlate with the anti-tumor activity of alemtuzumab. Deglycosylation of alemtuzumab resulted in a loss of cytotoxicity in vitro and was found to abolish anti-tumor activity in vivo. Individual inactivation of effector mechanisms in tumor-bearing mice indicated that the protective activity of alemtuzumab in vivo was primarily dependent on ADCC mediated by neutrophils and to a lesser extent NK cells. Increasing the number of circulating neutrophils by treatment with G-CSF enhanced the anti-tumor activity  of the antibody, thus providing further evidence for the involvement of neutrophils as effector cells in the activity of alemtuzumab."
40	"The compromised antioxidant defense system in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  suggested a potential use for reactive oxygen species (ROS) generating arsenic trioxide (ATO) and ascorbic acid. While both ATO and ascorbic acid mediate cytotoxicity in CLL B cells as single agents, the efficacy of ATO is enhanced by  ascorbic acid. This effect is dependent on increased ROS accumulation, as pretreatment of B-CLL cells with a glutathione reducing buthionine sulfoximine or catalase inhibiting aminotriazole, enhanced ATO/ascorbic acid-mediated cytotoxicity. Pretreatment with reducing agents such as catalase, or thiol antioxidant, N-acetyl cysteine or GSH also abrogated ATO/ascorbic acid-mediated cytotoxicity. Furthermore, Hu1D10-mediated cell death was enhanced with ATO and ascorbic acid, thus justifying potential combination of ATO/arsenic trioxide therapy with antibodies such as Hu1D10 that also cause accumulation of ROS."
41	"Thirty B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients were treated with fludarabine-cyclophosphamide-rituximab (FCR) and immune cell counts (natural killer (NK) cells, CD4, CD8, Tgammadelta and monocytes) were monitored from the end of treatment (EOT) up to 36 months (M36). Moreover, nonleukemic peripheral blood lymphocyte cytotoxicity (PBL/CTC) as well as rituximab (RTX)-dependent PBL/CTC was also measured at the initiation of therapy, EOT and M12. These parameters were correlated with post-FCR monitoring of the minimal residual disease (MRD) level in blood using a four-color flow cytometry technique. FCR induced a profound and sustained depletion of all T-cell populations, Tgammadelta being the most affected, whereas NK cells were relatively preserved. Both basal and interleukin-2-stimulated nonleukemic PBL/CTC against MEC-2, a CLL cell line,  increased during the post-FCR period. There was no correlation between immune recovery parameters and MRD progression profile, except that patients with high post-FCR CD4(+) counts experienced rapid MRD progression. MRD at M12 predicts clinical relapse. The limited data show RTX-mediated LBL/CTC activity against autologous B-cell cells in individuals with <1% residual disease at M12, opening  avenues for immunomodulation post-FCR with anti-CD20 antibodies. To conclude, our study suggests that MRD increase at M12 precedes disease evolution post-FCR, and  should be assessed as a surrogate marker for proactive management of CLL relapse."
42	"The study of intraclonal diversification (ID) in immunoglobulin (IG) genes offers valuable insight into the role of ongoing interactions with antigen in lymphomagenesis. We recently showed that ID in the IG heavy chain genes of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was generally limited; however,  intense ID was evident in selected cases, especially those expressing stereotyped IGHV4-34 rearrangements and assigned to subset 4. Here, we report results from a  large-scale subcloning study of IG light variable genes, in a total of 1008 subcloned sequences from 56 CLL cases. Multiple analogies were noted between heavy and light chains regarding the occurrence and molecular features of ID. More specifically, the impact of ID on the clonotypic light chains was generally  low, with the significant exception of subset 4. Similar to the IGHV4-34 heavy chains of this subset, their partner IGKV2-30 light chains were affected by an active and precisely targeted ID process. Altogether, these findings strengthen the argument that stereotypy in subset 4 extends to stereotyped ID patterns for both heavy and light chains through persistent antigenic stimulation. Furthermore, they strongly suggest that light chains have an active role in the antigen selection process, at least for certain subsets of CLL cases."
43	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common leukemia in the Western world. CLL occurs in two forms, aggressive and indolent. Aggressive CLL is characterized by high ZAP-70 expression and unmutated IgH V(H); indolent CLL shows low ZAP-70 expression and mutated IgH V(H). We recently found that miR-29 is up-regulated in indolent human B-CLL, compared to aggressive B-CLL and normal  CD19(+) B-cells. To determine the role of miR-29 in CLL, we generated transgenic  mice over-expressing miR-29 in mouse B-cells. Recently we reported that miR-29 transgenic mice develop indolent CLL phenotype. Interestingly, our previous findings suggest that miR-29 targets expression of TCL1, a critical oncogene in aggressive CLL, indicating that miR-29 might function as a tumor suppressor in CLL. Here we discuss these results and provide additional insights into function  of miR-29 in CLL."
44	"BACKGROUND: A substantial number of epidemiologic studies have provided estimates of the relation between exposure to benzene at work and the risk of leukemia, but the results have been heterogeneous. To bridge this gap in knowledge, we synthesized the existing epidemiologic evidence on the relation between occupational exposure to benzene and the risk of leukemia, including all types combined and the four main subgroups acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). METHODS: A systematic literature review was carried out using two databases 'Medline' and 'Embase' from 1950 through to July 2009. We selected articles which provided information that can be used to estimate the relation between benzene exposure and cancer risk (effect size). RESULTS: In total 15 studies were identified in the search, providing 16 effect estimates for the main analysis. The summary effect size for any leukemia from the fixed-effects model was 1.40 (95% CI, 1.23-1.57), but the study-specific estimates were strongly heterogeneous (I2 = 56.5%, Q stat = 34.47, p = 0.003). The random-effects model yielded a summary- effect size estimate of 1.72 (95% CI, 1.37-2.17). Effect estimates from 9 studies were based on cumulative exposures. In these studies the risk of leukemia increased with a dose-response pattern with a summary-effect estimate of 1.64 (95% CI, 1.13-2.39) for low (< 40 ppm-years), 1.90 (95% CI, 1.26-2.89) for medium (40-99.9 ppm-years), and 2.62 (95% CI, 1.57-4.39) for high exposure category (> 100 ppm-years). In a meta-regression, the trend was statistically significant (P = 0.015). Use of cumulative exposure eliminated heterogeneity. The risk of AML also increased from low (1.94, 95% CI,  0.95-3.95), medium (2.32, 95% CI, 0.91-5.94) to high exposure category (3.20, 95% CI, 1.09-9.45), but the trend was not statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides consistent evidence that exposure to benzene at work increases the risk of leukemia with a dose-response pattern. There was some  evidence of an increased risk of AML and CLL. The meta-analysis indicated a lack  of association between benzene exposure and the risk of CML."
45	"To investigate the simultaneous occurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, we report the case of a 70 year old patient with a primary diagnosis of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in 2002. In a routine follow up investigation of his chronic lymphocytic leukemia a newly detected mass in the Couinaud's segments 2 and 3 was found. No hepatitis C virus or hepatitis B virus  infection or cirrhosis was evident. After laparoscopic segmentectomy the histological examination revealed a hepatocellular carcinoma. While the relation  between liver parenchyma damages and hepatocellular carcinoma or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is well known, only a few publications have focused on the coexistence of hepatocellular carcinoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. With this case we demonstrate the coexistence of these diseases without having a predamaged liver parenchyma."
47	"The CD52-targeting antibody alemtuzumab is established in clinical practice with  convincing activity in relapsed and refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), particularly in patients with high-risk features and adverse prognosis. In the CAM307 study alemtuzumab was tested and finally approved as a first-line single agent, even though the hurdle with chlorambucil as the contender was not set very high. Within clinical trials, the drug demonstrated an excellent ability to eliminate minimal residual disease in blood and bone marrow, which has been correlated with a corresponding survival advantage in patients. However, in the maintenance setting, infectious complications due to severe T cell suppression have been highlighted and do not allow clinicans to use alemtuzumab outside of clinical trials. This review discusses potential therapeutic niches and future applications of alemtuzumab with a focus on CLL front-line treatment."
48	"PURPOSE: SNS-032 is a highly selective and potent inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks) 2, 7, and 9, with in vitro growth inhibitory effects and ability to induce apoptosis in malignant B cells. A phase I dose-escalation study of SNS-032 was conducted to evaluate safety, pharmacokinetics, biomarkers of mechanism-based pharmacodynamic (PD) activity, and clinical efficacy. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Parallel cohorts of previously treated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM) received SNS-032 as  a loading dose followed by 6-hour infusion weekly for 3 weeks of each 4-week course. RESULTS: There were 19 patients with CLL and 18 with MM treated. Tumor lysis syndrome was the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) for CLL, the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) was 75 mg/m(2), and the most frequent grade 3 to 4 toxicity was myelosuppression. One patient with CLL had more than 50% reduction in measurable  disease without improvement in hematologic parameters. Another patient with low tumor burden had stable disease for four courses. For patients with MM, no DLT was observed and MTD was not identified at up to 75 mg/m(2), owing to early study closure. Two patients with MM had stable disease and one had normalization of spleen size with treatment. Biomarker analyses demonstrated mechanism-based PD activity with inhibition of Cdk7 and Cdk9, decreases in Mcl-1 and XIAP expression level, and associated CLL cell apoptosis. CONCLUSION: SNS-032 demonstrated mechanism-based target modulation and limited clinical activity in heavily pretreated patients with CLL and MM. Further single-agent, PD-based, dose and schedule modification is warranted to maximize clinical efficacy."
49	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most prevalent human leukemia and is characterized by the progressive accumulation of long-lived malignant B cells. Here we show that human B-CLL cells selectively express high levels of Toll-like  receptor 9 (TLR9) mRNA and proteins. Treating B-CLL cells with TLR9 agonists, type B CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-B ODNs), induces significant morphologic and phenotypic activation, altered cytokine production, reversal of signal transducer, and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) phosphorylation state, followed by profound apoptosis of B-CLL cells that is CpG-B ODN treatment time- and dose-dependent. TLR9-CpG ODN ligation-induced apoptosis of B-CLL cells is confirmed by viable cell counts, annexin V/propidium iodide and tetramethyl-rhodamine ethylester staining, Western blots of the activation, and cleaved caspases and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. Triggering TLR9 by CpG-B ODN leads to nuclear factor-kappaB-dependent production of autocrine interleukin-10,  which activates JAK/STAT pathway-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1 proteins and thereby provokes an apoptosis pathway in B-CLL cells. Treating B-CLL cells in vitro or in vivo with CpG-B ODN reduces the number of leukemia cells that engraft in NOD-scid mice. These findings provide new understanding of CpG ODN-mediated antitumor effects and support for the development of TLR9-targeted therapy for human CLL."
52	"The microenvironment provides essential growth and survival signals to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells and contributes to their resistance to cytotoxic agents. Pharmacologic inhibition of spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK), a key mediator  of B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling, induces apoptosis in primary CLL cells and prevents stroma contact-mediated cell survival. This report demonstrates a role of SYK in molecularly defined pathways that mediate the CLL-microenvironmental crosstalk independent from the BCR. Chemokine and integrin stimulation induced SYK phosphorylation, SYK-dependent Akt phosphorylation, and F-actin formation in  primary CLL cells. Inhibition of SYK by 2 pharmacologic inhibitors and siRNA-knockdown abrogated downstream SYK signaling and morphologic changes induced by these stimuli. CLL cell migration toward CXCL12, the major homing attractor, and CLL cell adhesion to VCAM-1, a major integrin ligand expressed on  stromal cells, were markedly reduced by SYK inhibition. In combination with fludarabine, the SYK inhibitor R406 abrogated stroma-mediated drug resistance by  preventing up-regulation of the antiapoptotic factor Mcl-1 in CLL cells. SYK blockade in CLL is a promising therapeutic principle not only for its inhibition  of the BCR signaling pathway, but also by inhibiting protective stroma signals in a manner entirely independent of BCR signaling."
53	"Interaction of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells with tissue microenvironment has been suggested to favor disease progression by promoting malignant B-cell growth. Previous work has shown expression in peripheral blood (PB) of CLL B cells of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) among CLL patients with an unmutated (UM) profile of immunoglobulin genes and with ongoing  class switch recombination (CSR) process. Because AID expression results from interaction with activated tissue microenvironment, we speculated whether the small subset with ongoing CSR is responsible for high levels of AID expression and could be derived from this particular microenvironment. In this work, we quantified AID expression and ongoing CSR in PB of 50 CLL patients and characterized the expression of different molecules related to microenvironment interaction. Our results show that among UM patients (1) high AID expression is restricted to the subpopulation of tumoral cells ongoing CSR; (2) this small subset expresses high levels of proliferation, antiapoptotic and progression markers (Ki-67, c-myc, Bcl-2, CD49d, and CCL3/4 chemokines). Overall, this work outlines the importance of a cellular subset in PB of UM CLL patients with a poor clinical outcome, high AID levels, and ongoing CSR, whose presence might be a hallmark of a recent contact with the microenvironment."
55	"BACKGROUND: While deacetylase (DAC) inhibitors show promise for the treatment of  B-cell malignancies, those introduced to date are weak inhibitors of class I and  II DACs or potent inhibitors of class I DAC only, and have shown suboptimal activity or unacceptable toxicities. We therefore investigated the novel DAC inhibitor AR-42 to determine its efficacy in B-cell malignancies. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In mantle cell lymphoma (JeKo-1), Burkitt's lymphoma (Raji),  and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (697) cell lines, the 48-hr IC(50) (50% growth inhibitory concentration) of AR-42 is 0.61 microM or less. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patient cells, the 48-hr LC(50) (concentration lethal to 50%) of AR-42 is 0.76 microM. AR-42 produces dose- and time-dependent acetylation both of histones and tubulin, and induces caspase-dependent apoptosis that is not reduced in the presence of stromal cells. AR-42 also sensitizes CLL cells to TNF-Related  Apoptosis Inducing Ligand (TRAIL), potentially through reduction of c-FLIP. AR-42 significantly reduced leukocyte counts and/or prolonged survival in three separate mouse models of B-cell malignancy without evidence of toxicity. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Together, these data demonstrate that AR-42 has in vitro and in vivo efficacy at tolerable doses. These results strongly support upcoming phase I testing of AR-42 in B-cell malignancies."
56	"BACKGROUND: Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare skin cancer that was recently found to be associated with a polyomavirus and with immunosuppression, provoking  new interest in its epidemiology. We conducted a nationwide study in Denmark to describe MCC incidence and mortality and the association between MCC and other cancers. METHODS: We used data from Danish national health and population registers on MCC diagnoses, deaths, and population counts during the study period (1978-2006) to calculate MCC incidence rates, cumulative risks of MCC at age 100 years, and MCC  mortality rates by tumor stage. We used Poisson regression to estimate the excess mortality rate ratio attributable to MCC and examined associations between MCC and other cancers diagnosed before and after the MCC diagnosis using standardized incidence rate ratios (SIRs). All statistical tests were two-sided. RESULTS: Between January 1, 1978, and December 31, 2006, 185 persons were diagnosed with MCC in Denmark. MCC incidence between 1995 and 2006 was 2.2 cases  per million person-years. In the first year after MCC diagnosis, 22% of persons with localized disease died compared with 54% of patients with nonlocalized disease; by 5 years after diagnosis, the proportions of MCC patients who had died increased to 55% and 84%, respectively. MCC incidence was statistically significantly increased more than 1 year after a diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (SIR = 14.6, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 8.4 to 25.6), basal cell carcinoma (SIR = 4.3, 95% CI = 2.7 to 6.6), malignant melanoma (SIR =  3.3, 95% CI = 1.1 to 10.3), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SIR = 12.0, 95% CI = 3.8 to 37.8), Hodgkin lymphoma (SIR = 17.6, 95% CI = 2.5 to 126), and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SIR = 5.6, 95% CI = 1.4 to 22.4). Squamous cell carcinoma (SIR = 12.1,  95% CI = 5.1 to 29.1) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SIR = 14.7, 95% CI = 3.7  to 58.8) occurred in statistically significant excess more than 1 year after MCC  diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: These results support the existence of shared risk factors for MCC and other cancers. Heightened awareness of the association between MCC and other  cancers, particularly squamous cell carcinoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, may facilitate earlier clinical detection and treatment of MCC, thereby improving patient survival."
57	"Transcription factors (TFs) are critical for B-cell differentiation, affecting gene expression both by repression and transcriptional activation. Still, this information is not used for classification of B-cell lymphomas (BCLs). Traditionally, BCLs are diagnosed based on a phenotypic resemblance to normal B-cells; assessed by immunohistochemistry or flow cytometry, by using a handful of phenotypic markers. In the last decade, diagnostic and prognostic evaluation has been facilitated by global gene expression profiling (GEP), providing a new powerful means for the classification, prediction of survival, and response to treatment of lymphomas. However, most GEP studies have typically been performed on whole tissue samples, containing varying degrees of tumor cell content, which  results in uncertainties in data analysis. In this study, global GEP analyses were performed on highly purified, flow-cytometry sorted tumor-cells from eight subgroups of BCLs. This enabled identification of TFs that can be uniquely associated to the tumor cells of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), follicular lymphoma (FL), hairy cell leukemia (HCL), and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). The identified transcription factors influence both the global and specific gene expression of the BCLs and have possible implications for diagnosis and treatment."
58	"Selective targeting and detection of a hematologic malignancy, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, using surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) gold nanoparticles is reported. The functional nanoparticles were composed of a gold core onto which an optical reporter dye was adsorbed, protected from aggregation  by grafted polyethyleneglycol, and targeted to CD19 antigen by antibodies. The signals were detected by dark-field microscopy and Raman spectrometry. The observation that the Raman signals are not disrupted by several traditional pathology stains indicates advantages over fluorescence methods."
59	"In recent years, considerable advances have been made in first-line treatment strategies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Combination of conventional chemotherapy with immunotherapeutic agents is currently considered the most active strategy, with improved progression-free survival and overall survival. However, patients are not cured and invariably experience relapsing disease requiring treatment. In contrast to the advances made in first-line treatment strategies, much less progress has been made for patients with relapsed and especially refractory CLL. The activity of most chemotherapeutic drugs used in CLL rely on intact p53 function, and repeated cycles of therapy might eventually  result in drug resistance because of acquired cytogenetic alterations, mainly affecting genes involved in the p53 response. As a consequence, most commonly used treatment regimens are ineffective in patients with refractory disease. A number of promising alternative treatment approaches are currently under investigation. In this review, the approach to patients with relapsed and refractory CLL and current promising experimental treatment options for these distinct clinical patient categories are discussed."
60	"Monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) directed against the CD20 antigen on B cells have dramatically altered the treatment landscape for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Rituximab, a chimeric mouse/human MoAb, was the first antibody to be approved for the treatment of indolent B-cell lymphomas. Although  single-agent, standard-dose rituximab has limited activity as first-line therapy  for patients with CLL, it has synergistic therapeutic activity when combined with chemotherapy. Indeed, chemoimmunotherapy with combined fludarabine (F), cyclophosphamide (C), and rituximab was shown to improve both progression-free and overall survival in a randomized phase III clinical trial compared with FC in previously untreated patients with CLL. In this article, we review important clinical trials that have incorporated rituximab with other agents for treatment-naive patients with CLL. We also highlight second- and third-generation CD20 MoAbs approved or in development for the treatment of CLL."
61	"MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNA molecules that negatively regulate gene expression via degradation or translational repression of their targeted messenger RNAs (mRNAs). It is known that aberrant microRNA expression can play a  vital role in the pathology of leukemia, thus microRNAs have rapidly emerged as potential targets for therapeutics. This review focuses on recent researches on the important roles of microRNAs in the pathogenesis of leukemia, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)."
62	"There is increasing evidence for inherited genetic susceptibility to cancer, and  much of this is thought to be caused by the co-inheritance of multiple low risk alleles. Recent developments have allowed the search for this class of susceptibility allele to be conducted on a genome-wide basis. Here we discuss the impact genome-wide association studies are having on our understanding of two of  the major hematological malignancies, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia."
63	"INTRODUCTION: It is widely accepted that expression of ZAP-70 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains stable in time. However, data supporting this  notion are surprisingly scarce. Therefore, we assessed expression of ZAP-70 in serial samples taken during the course of the disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied 44 patients with CLL diagnosed according to NCI-WG criteria (34 men, 10 women, median age 62, range, 36-81). A total of 104 samples were examined; all patients had at least two measurements. Median interval between the first and the second sample was 13 months (range, 2-36). ZAP-70 expression was detected by flow cytometry using phycoerythrin-conjugated monoclonal antibody clone 1E7.2 and negative isotype control. Twenty percent of positive cells were considered as the threshold of positivity. RESULTS: Significant change in ZAP-70 expression (i.e. from positivity to negativity and vice versa) was detected in 15/44 patients (34%). Interestingly, 7/8 patients whose ZAP-70 expression converted to positivity had unmutated IgVH genes. In addition, the conversion was accompanied by clinical progression or relapse in all but one patient. On the other hand, 5/7 patients with loss of ZAP-70 had stable clinical course. One patient became ZAP-70-negative during treatment with prednisone for autoimmune hemolytic anemia. CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to commonly accepted opinion, significant change in ZAP-70 expression in time was detected in a substantial proportion of our patients with CLL. While the conversion to ZAP-70 negativity was found predominantly in patients with stable disease, change to positivity was typical in patients with unmutated IgVH genes at the time of progression or relapse. Based on our pilot results, repeated assessment of ZAP-70 expression might be especially useful at the time of progression or relapse in patients who were initially ZAP-70-negative."
64	"Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) is a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder defined by bone marrow infiltration by lymphoplasmacytic cells as defined by the  current classification systems. According to its transition situation between mutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma, several new therapeutic alternatives have been proposed for this entity based on the experience with these two well-known conditions together with the highly singular data provided by preclinical models. Thus, in WM two main therapeutic attitudes are possible: the use of conventional therapies based on the administration of single drugs or combinations with alkylating agents, purine analogues and anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies; or the use of very new combinations that, without rejecting the previously mentioned drugs, include new agents, such as proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulatory agents or even histone deacetylase inhibitors and PI3K/AKT inhibitors, among others. Here we review the most recent  results reported for the use of new combinations and new drugs in patients with WM at different stages of the disease."
65	"A large cell lymphoma develops in approximately 1-10% of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This is known as Richter's syndrome. Chest wall swelling is a very unusual presentation of this syndrome. Here we report another such case of chest wall swelling, a very rare presentation of Richter's syndrome."
66	"The double-stranded RNA-dependent kinase PKR has been described for many years as strictly a pro-apoptotic kinase. Recent data suggest that the main purpose of this kinase is damage control and repair following stress and, if all else fails, apoptosis. Aberrant activation of PKR has been reported in numerous neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. Although a subset of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia contain low levels of PKR expression and activity, elevated PKR activity and/or expression have been detected in a wide range of hematologic malignancies, from bone marrow failure disorders to acute leukemia. With the recent findings that cancers containing elevated PKR activity are highly sensitive to PKR inhibition, we explore the role of PKR in hematologic malignancies, signal transduction pathways affected by PKR, and how PKR may contribute to leukemic transformation."
67	"Legionella feeleii has rarely been reported as causing pneumonia in patients with hematologic malignancies. We present a case of Legionella feeleii serotype 2 pneumonia with empyema in a man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and describe the methods of identifying this organism using both standard methods and newer diagnostic techniques."
68	"BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma (MALToma)  usually presents at an early stage involving only the stomach and/or regional lymph nodes. Although a sequential transformation from low-grade gastric MALToma  (GM) to high-grade GM to secondary diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is commonly assumed, documented cases of transformation are rare. We aim to determine the frequency of transformation. METHODS: We identified 55 early low-grade GMs, 18 early high-grade GMs, and 13 advanced GMs at the National Taiwan University Hospital from 1995 to 2005. The median follow-up time was 59 months. RESULTS: We found that only one early low-grade GM and two early high-grade GMs transformed into secondary DLBCLs and progressed outside the stomach and regional lymph nodes. Significantly, we identified 13 low-grade GMs that were refractory to Helicobacter eradication therapy or relapsed after initial response. All 13 cases had been followed-up for at least 3 years without development of secondary  DLBCLs. The frequency of transformation for early low-grade GM was less than 2% (1/55). Although two lymphoma-unrelated mortalities were identified, none of the  55 patients with early-low grade GMs died of the disease. CONCLUSION: Compared with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, which has a 16% transformation rate and a median transformation time of 24 months, we conclude that early low-grade GM rarely transforms into secondary DLBCL or progresses beyond the stomach. Without transformation or progression, patients with early low-grade GM rarely die of the disease and should be treated conservatively."
70	"Limitations of therapeutic options for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) have necessitated the development of novel treatments/strategies. Rituximab (chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody [mAb]) considerably improved therapeutic outcomes for patients with B-cell malignancies, particularly when combined with chemotherapy; outcomes, however, are limited by rituximab resistance or reduced response upon re-treatment. Novel anti-CD20 mAbs  are in development that may enhance mAb therapy. Ofatumumab (human anti-CD20 mAb) induces highly potent cell lysis, including in cells with low CD20 expression, and is the most clinically advanced new anti-CD20 mAb. Positive phase III interim data for ofatumumab in fludarabine-refractory CLL that is also refractory to alemtuzumab or less suitable for alemtuzumab due to bulky (>5 cm) lymphadenopathy has led to FDA approval of this agent in this population. Preclinical and early clinical assessment of other novel anti-CD20 mAbs include: ocrelizumab, veltuzumab, GA101, AME-133v, and PRO131921; data suggest potential for improved efficacy over rituximab that will require substantiation in large-scale clinical  trials. New treatment strategies and novel anti-CD20 mAbs have the potential to enhance long-term outcomes for CLL and NHL."
71	"To investigate the role of protein kinases (PKs) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL), we performed gene expression profile on 505 PK genes. Comparison between CLL with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) patients highlighted an homogeneous up-modulation of several PKs in CLL, 16 also overexpressed in two additional CLL  cohorts. Q-PCR analysis confirmed these findings. No differences were observed in the main prognostic subclasses, indicating that PK overexpression is specific of  the disease itself. Tests in vitro showed that Dasatinib partially reduced CLL cells viability, mostly in IGHV germline patients. These findings suggest that treatment with second generation tyrosine kinase (TK) inhibitors may represent an attractive therapeutic strategy for CLL patients."
72	"ZAP-70 expression is a strong prognostic indicator in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. However, ZAP-70 quantification by flow cytometry lacks sufficient standardization. Based upon the correlation between ZAP-70 expression and its gene methylation status, we have developed a quantitative pyrosequencing assay for the determination of ZAP-70 methylation adapted for routine use. Methylation  in four CpG pairs (C-223, C-243, C-254, and C-267) in the first intron of ZAP-70  is associated with repression of ZAP-70. Moreover, it correlates with CD38 expression (n=111, p<.0001), IgHv mutation status (n=106, p<.0001), time to treatment (p<.0001), and overall survival (p=.0014). Pyrosequencing of ZAP-70 provides a good alternative to flow cytometry."
73	"BACKGROUND: Heavy water ((2)H(2)O) labelling of DNA enables the measurement of low-level cell proliferation in vivo, using gas chromatography/pyrolysis isotope  ratio mass spectrometry (GC/P/IRMS), but the methodology has been too complex for widespread use. Here, we report a simplified method for measuring proliferation of malignant B cells in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). DESIGN AND METHODS: Patients were labelled with (2)H(2)O for 6 weeks; blood samples were obtained at 0, 3, and 6 weeks during (2)H(2)O labelling and 9, 12, and 16 weeks thereafter. Bone marrow was sampled at week 6. Phlebotomy was performed at multiple, non-research clinical sites. CLL cells were isolated in a  central laboratory, using a novel RosetteSep-based method; DNA labelling was analyzed by GC/P/IRMS. RESULTS: In 26 of 29 patients, CLL cell isolation resulted in > or =95% purity for malignant CD5+ B cells; in one patient, malignant cells expressed marginal levels of CD5, and in two others, further sorting of CD5hi malignant cells was required. Cell yields correlated with white blood cell counts and exceeded GC/P/IRMS requirements ( approximately 10(7) cells) >98% of the time; high-quality DNA labelling data were obtained. RosetteSep isolation achieved adequate CLL cell purity from bone marrow in only 64% of samples, but greatly reduced subsequent sort time for impure samples. CONCLUSION: This method enables clinical studies of CLL cell proliferation outside of research settings, using a shorter (2)H(2)O intake protocol, a minimal sampling protocol, and centralised sample processing. The CLL cell isolation protocol may also prove useful in other applications. (clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00481858)."
74	"Soluble or membrane-anchored ligands of NKG2D and their receptor have a critical  role in the elimination of tumor cells and disease progression. Plasma samples of 98 patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) were analyzed with specific ELISA systems for soluble major histocompatibility complex class I-related chains (sMICA and sMICB) and UL-16-binding proteins (ULBP1, 2, and 3).  The flow cytometric analysis of MICA on CLL cells and natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) receptors on NK cells was performed after thawing of frozen peripheral blood lymphocytes of CLL patients (N=51). Levels of sMICA, sMICB, and  sULBP2 were significantly increased (P<0.001) compared with 48 controls, whereas  sULBP1 3 were not detectable in patients and controls. Levels of sMICA>990 pg/ml  (P=0.014), sMICB>200 pg/ml (P=0.0001), and sULBP2>105 pg/ml (P<0.0001) were associated with poor treatment-free survival (TFS). Neither MICA nor NKG2D expression could be related to clinical parameters. In multivariate analysis Binet stage (P=0.002), sULBP2 (P=0.002) and ZAP-70 (P=0.002) were independent predictive factors for TFS. In patients with Binet stage A, sULBP2 levels>105 pg/ml were strongly associated (P=0.0025) with poor TFS. Our data show that soluble but not membrane-anchored NKG2D ligands or receptors are of prognostic significance in CLL. Moreover, sULBP2 seems to be useful to identify early-stage  patients with risk of disease progression."
75	"Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable B-cell malignancy, characterized by the proliferation of malignant plasma cells. B-cell-activating factor (BAFF, also known as BlyS or B-lymphocyte stimulator) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), the two members of the tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily, enhance the production of antibodies and regulate and promote proliferation and survival. Both BAFF and APRIL have an important role in B cell lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell survival. This study evaluates the expression of BAFF,  APRIL, and their three receptors in two human MM cell lines (KM3 and PRMI 8226) and ten primary MM cell lines, and their effects on the growth of MM cells in vivo. MM cells were found to express BAFF, APRIL, and their three receptor genes  both at the gene and protein levels. ELISA found high concentrations of BAFF and  APRIL in the supernatants of these cultured cells. Treatment with PS-341 decreased the concentration of BAFF and APRIL. The WST-1 analysis of growth found that BAFF and APRIL stimulated the proliferation of MM cells. PS-341 inhibited this enhanced proliferation and induced apoptosis. Making use of the rhTACI-Fc to block the BAFF- and APRIL-induced activation of NF-kappaB2, we demonstrated that  the NF-kappaB2-p52/RelB signal contributes to MM cell survival. In summary, PS-341 was shown to block this pathway. PS-341 inhibits the autocrine secretion of BAFF and APRIL and thereby MM cell proliferation by the alterative NF-kappaB2  pathway. BAFF and APRIL appear to be the targets of PS-341."
76	"A drug of high potency and reduced immunogenicity is needed to develop a targeted biological drug that when injected systemically can penetrate to malignant B cells. Therefore, a novel deimmunized bispecific ligand-directed toxin targeted by dual high-affinity single-chain Fvs (scFv) spliced to PE38 with a KDEL COOH-terminus was genetically engineered. The aims were to reduce toxin immunogenicity using mutagenesis, measure the ability of mutated drug to elicit antitoxin antibody responses, and show that mutated drug was effective against systemic B-cell lymphoma in vivo. Both human anti-CD22 scFv and anti-CD19 scFv were cloned onto the same single-chain molecule with truncated pseudomonas exotoxin (PE38) to create the drug. Site-specific mutagenesis was used to mutate  amino acids in seven key epitopic toxin regions that dictate B-cell generation of neutralizing antitoxin antibodies. Bioassays were used to determine whether mutation reduced potency, and ELISAs were done to determine whether antitoxin antibodies were reduced. Finally, a powerful genetically altered luciferase xenograft model was used that could be imaged in real time to determine the effect on systemic malignant human B-cell lymphoma, Raji-luc. Patient B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and B lymphoma were high in CD22 and CD19 expression. 2219KDEL7mut was significantly effective against systemic Raji-luc in mice and prevented metastatic spread. Mutagenesis reduced neutralizing antitoxin antibodies by approximately 80% with no apparent loss in in vitro or in vivo activity. Because 2219KDEL7mut immunogenicity was significantly reduced and the drug was highly effective in vivo, we can now give  multiple drug treatments with targeted toxins in future clinical trials."
77	"The head and neck region is the second most common site for the development of extranodal lymphomas. Richter's syndrome (RS) involves the transformation of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) to an aggressive lymphoma, most commonly, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). We report the case of a 62-year-old man who developed DLBCL in the periorbital region 2 months after blunt trauma to the site. The patient lacked other physical symptoms at the time  of presentation. Bone marrow biopsy and immunophenotypic analysis revealed a Richter transformation of unknown B-CLL. RS frequently arises in lymph nodes or bone marrow and rarely presents with extranodal involvement. Chemotherapy resulted in total remission of the lymphoma and no relapse was observed in the 6-month follow-up period. This case demonstrates that the clinician must recognize that unresolved soft tissue swelling after a trauma may be caused by NHL."
78	"The pathogenesis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has been linked with the production and activity of certain growth factors. However a significant proportion of CLL patients display immune abnormalities suggestive of aberrant cytokine secretion and/or response. In contrast to B lymphocytes, T cells of B-CLL patients characterise with the increased production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and this cytokine has been indicated to prevent malignant cells from  entering apoptosis including the slowly expanding population of CD5+ B cells that characterizes chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The aim of the present study was to assess whether functionally relevant interferon-gamma gene (IFNG) polymorphism (+847 A/T) contributes to the pathogenesis of B-CLL. In total 110 individuals was investigates, including 61 CLL patients and 50 healthy individuals. The presence  of the IFNG AA genotype was found to be associated with susceptibility to CLL (23/61 vs. 7/50, p < 0.005, for patients and controls, respectively). This results suggest that individuals rather prone to the lower level of IFN-gamma production (associated with the presence of the A allele) appear to be more susceptible to this malignant disease."
79	"The protein tyrosine kinase ZAP70 became the subject of intense scrutiny in the early nineties, when ZAP70 mutations were characterized in several young patients presenting with severe T cell immunodeficiencies. The association of a lack of expression of ZAP70 with an immunodeficiency consisting in a markedly reduced T lymphocyte-mediated immunity highlighted the crucial role of this tyrosine kinase in T cell development and function. This discovery was soon accompanied by the characterization of the substrates of ZAP70 and the signalling cascades that depend on ZAP70 activity. These studies demonstrated that ZAP70 was indeed at the crossroad of several signalling pathways that control T lymphocyte development and function. Recently, a revival of interest for this protein came again from studies associating abnormal ZAP70 expression with pathological conditions. Some  chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cells were shown to express ZAP70, and this expression was correlated with bad prognosis. Mouse models also revealed that partial defects in ZAP70 activity can be associated with autoimmunity. These last results suggested that ZAP70 is involved in the fine balance between immunity and tolerance. In this review, we will discuss the role of ZAP70 in T cell activation and focus on what we learnt from pathological conditions associated with defective expression or activity of the ZAP70 kinase."
83	"Surface IgM (sIgM) has a key influence on the clinical behavior of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We now report that it exists in 2 forms with different N-glycosylation patterns in the mu-constant region. One glycoform is similar to normal B cells in bearing mature complex glycans common to most cell-surface glycoproteins. The other is an immature mannosylated form more characteristic of mu chains in the endoplasmic reticulum. Unmutated CLL (U-CLL) expresses a higher proportion of mannosylated surface mu chains than mutated CLL. Normal B cells express only the mature glycoform but can express the immature form after persistent engagement of sIgM, suggesting that glycan modification is  a consequence of antigen exposure. CLL cells express variable proportions of the  mannosylated form and can revert to the mature form after incubation in vitro. Both glycoforms are able to signal after sIgM engagement in vitro, leading to enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation. These findings support the concept that CLL cells are continuously exposed to antigen in vivo, driving the N-glycosylation pattern of expressed sIgM toward a mannosylated form, especially in U-CLL. Strikingly, this is reminiscent of follicular lymphoma, where mannosylated Ig is  expressed constitutively via N-glycosylation sites in the variable region, suggesting a functional asset for this glycoform."
85	"BACKGROUND: Fludarabine, is one of the most active single agents in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Over time, however, virtually all CLL patients become fludarabine-refractory. To elucidate whether microRNAs are involved in the development of fludarabine resistance, we analyzed the expression of 723 human miRNAs before and 5-days after fludarabine mono-therapy in 17 CLL patients which were classified as responder or refractory to fludarabine treatment based on NCI criteria. RESULTS: By comparing the expression profiles of these two groups of patients, we identified a microRNA signature able to distinguish refractory from sensitive CLLs. The expression of some microRNAs was also able to predict fludarabine resistance of 12 independent CLL patients. Among the identified microRNAs, miR-148a, miR-222 and miR-21 exhibited a significantly higher expression in non-responder patients either before and after fludarabine treatment. After performing messenger RNA expression profile of the same patients, the activation  of p53-responsive genes was detected in fludarabine responsive cases only, therefore suggesting a possible mechanism linked to microRNA deregulation in non-responder patients. Importantly, inhibition of miR-21 and miR-222 by anti-miRNA oligonucleotides induced a significant increase in caspase activity in fludarabine-treated p53-mutant MEG-01 cells, suggesting that miR-21 and miR-222 up-regulation may be involved in the establishment of fludarabine resistance. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report that reveals the existence of a microRNA profile that differentiate refractory and sensitive CLLs, either before and after fludarabine mono-therapy. A p53 dysfunctional pathway emerged in refractory CLLs  and could contribute in explaining the observed miRNA profile. Moreover, this work indicates that specific microRNAs can be used to predict fludarabine resistance and may potentially be used as therapeutic targets, therefore establishing an important starting point for future studies."
86	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells are often affected by genomic aberrations targeting key regulatory genes. Although fludarabine is the standard first line therapy to treat CLL, only few data are available about the resistance of B cells to this purine nucleoside analog in vivo. Here we sought to increase our understanding of fludarabine action and describe the mechanisms leading to resistance in vivo. We performed an analysis of genomic aberrations, gene expression profiles, and microRNAs expression in CLL blood B lymphocytes isolated during the course of patients' treatment with fludarabine. RESULTS: In sensitive patients, the differentially expressed genes we identified  were mainly involved in p53 signaling, DNA damage response, cell cycle and cell death. In resistant patients, uncommon genomic abnormalities were observed and the resistance toward fludarabine could be characterized based on the expression  profiles of genes implicated in lymphocyte proliferation, DNA repair, and cell growth and survival. Of particular interest in some patients was the amplification of MYC (8q) observed both at the gene and transcript levels, together with alterations of myc-transcriptional targets, including genes and miRNAs involved in the regulation of cell cycle and proliferation. Differential expression of the sulfatase SULF2 and of miR-29a, -181a, and -221 was also observed between resistant and sensitive patients before treatment. These observations were further confirmed on a validation cohort of CLL patients treated with fludarabine in vitro. CONCLUSION: In the present study we identified genes and miRNAs that may predict  clinical resistance of CLL to fludarabine, and describe an interesting oncogenic  mechanism in CLL patients resistant to fludarabine by which the complete MYC-specific regulatory network was altered (DNA and RNA levels, and transcriptional targets). These results should prove useful for understanding and overcoming refractoriness to fludarabine and also for predicting the clinical outcome of CLL patients before or early during their treatment."
88	"BACKGROUND: Although several studies had examined secondary malignancies in patients with specific primary tumor types, to the authors' knowledge there are very few data examining the long-term sequelae of pelvic radiation as a whole. The goal of the current study was to examine the risk of treatment-associated leukemia and multiple myeloma in patients treated with pelvic radiotherapy. METHODS: Patients with invasive tumors of the vulva, cervix, uterus, anus, and rectosigmoid treated from 1973 to 2005 and recorded in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database were analyzed. Patients were stratified based on receipt of pelvic radiotherapy. The incidence of secondary leukemia (except chronic lymphocytic leukemia) and multiple myeloma were examined. Multivariate Cox proportional hazards models and Kaplan-Meier curves were constructed to examine the association between pelvic radiation and the development of subsequent hematologic malignancies. RESULTS: A total of 199,268 individuals, including 66,896 (34%) who received pelvic radiotherapy and 132,372 (66%) not treated with radiation, were identified. In a Cox proportional hazards model adjusting for other risk factors, post-treatment leukemia was increased by 72% (hazard ratio [HR], 1.72; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.37-2.15) in the patients who received pelvic radiotherapy. The risk of secondary leukemia peaked at 5 to 10 years after primary treatment (HR, 1.85; 95% CI, 1.40-2.44) and remained elevated even 10 to  15 years after initial treatment (HR, 1.50; 95% CI, 1.03-2.18). There was no significant association between radiation and the development of multiple myeloma (HR, 1.08; 95% CI, 0.81-1.44). CONCLUSIONS: Pelvic radiation was associated with an increased risk of secondary  leukemia but did not appear to increase the risk of multiple myeloma."
89	"We investigated functional relationships between microRNA 221/222 (miR-221/222) cluster and p27, a key regulator of cell cycle, in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The enforced expression of miR-221/222 in the CLL cell line MEC1 induced a significant down-regulation of p27 protein and conferred a proliferative advantage to the transduced cells that exhibited faster progression into the S phase of the cell cycle. Accordingly, expression of miR-221/miR-222 and p27 was found to be inversely related in leukemic cells obtained from peripheral blood (PB) of 38 patients with CLL. Interestingly, when miR-221/222 and p27 protein were evaluated in different anatomic compartments (lymph nodes or bone marrow) of the same patients, increased expression of the 2 miRNAs became apparent compared  with PB. This finding was paralleled by a low expression of p27. In addition, when CLL cells were induced in vitro to enter cell cycle (eg, with cytosine phosphate guanine oligodeoxynucleotide), a significant increase of miR-221/222 expression and a marked down-regulation of p27 protein were evident. These data indicate that the miR-221/222 cluster modulates the expression of p27 protein in  CLL cells and lead to suggest that miR-221/222 and p27 may represent a regulatory loop that helps maintaining CLL cells in a resting condition."
92	"BACKGROUND: Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) is an important marker for one of the 'two-hits' required for tumor suppressor gene inactivation. Traditional methods for mapping LOH regions require the comparison of both tumor and patient-matched  normal DNA samples. However, for many archival samples, patient-matched normal DNA is not available leading to the under-utilization of this important resource  in LOH studies. Here we describe a new method for LOH analysis that relies on the genome-wide comparison of heterozygosity of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) between cohorts of cases and un-matched healthy control samples. Regions of LOH are defined by consistent decreases in heterozygosity across a genetic region in the case cohort compared to the control cohort. METHODS: DNA was collected from 20 Follicular Lymphoma (FL) tumor samples, 20 Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) tumor samples, neoplastic B-cells of 10 B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (B-CLL) patients and Buccal cell samples matched to 4 of these B-CLL patients. The cohort heterozygosity comparison method was developed and validated using LOH derived in a small cohort of B-CLL by traditional comparisons of tumor and normal DNA samples, and compared to the only alternative method for LOH analysis without patient matched controls. LOH candidate regions were then generated for enlarged cohorts of B-CLL, FL and DLBCL samples using our cohort heterozygosity comparison method in order to evaluate potential LOH candidate regions in these non-Hodgkin's lymphoma tumor subtypes. RESULTS: Using a small cohort of B-CLL samples with patient-matched normal DNA we have validated the utility of this method and shown that it displays more accuracy and sensitivity in detecting LOH candidate regions compared to the only  alternative method, the Hidden Markov Model (HMM) method. Subsequently, using B-CLL, FL and DLBCL tumor samples we have utilised cohort heterozygosity comparisons to localise LOH candidate regions in these subtypes of non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma. Detected LOH regions included both previously described regions of LOH  as well as novel genomic candidate regions. CONCLUSIONS: We have proven the efficacy of the use of cohort heterozygosity comparisons for genome-wide mapping of LOH and shown it to be in many ways superior to the HMM method. Additionally, the use of this method to analyse SNP microarray data from 3 common forms of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma yielded interesting tumor suppressor gene candidates, including the ETV3 gene that was highlighted in both B-CLL and FL."
93	"Over the last few years, several new agents have been under evaluation in preclinical studies as well as in early clinical trials, and have shown promise in treating CLL. These treatments include new monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), immunomodulating agents, novel purine nucleoside analogs, Bcl-2 inhibitors and other agents. The most promising are a new mAbs targeted CD20 molecule or CD23, anti-CD40 mAbs and anti-CD37 antibody. Oblimersen, flavopiridol, and lenalidomide are also being evaluated both in pre-clinical studies and in early clinical trials. However, available therapies are only partially efficient and there is an obvious need to develop better strategies and new, more specific and active drugs."
95	"While increased renal venous and direct renal parenchymal pressure may cause renal insufficiency, there are no prior reports of hypersplenism secondary to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) doing so. This first report of massive splenomegaly leading to marked compression of the left kidney associated with renal insufficiency that resolved after splenectomy illustrates that profound extrinsic renal compression from splenomegaly may significantly compromise left renal function and splenectomy should be considered in this situation."
96	"We describe a simple and robust flow cytometry assay for ZAP-70 and CD38 expression. The steps required to validate this assay in a clinical flow cytometry laboratory are described. Two criteria were used to characterize ZAP-70 expression into positive, negative, and indeterminate categories and applied to 111 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) resulting in 29.7% positive, 56.8% negative, and 13.5% indeterminate cases. A sensitivity-specificity crossover plot between ZAP-70 and CD38 suggested a cutoff of 12.5% for defining CD38 positivity. ZAP-70+ cases were significantly more likely to be at a higher clinical stage and, together with CD38+ cases, were more likely to have unmutated IgV(H). However, for individual patients, the concordance between these markers was not perfect. It may be necessary to evaluate several prognostic markers simultaneously in CLL, and availability of convenient assays for ZAP-70 and CD38  is desirable for optimal clinical decision making."
97	"PURPOSE: The pharmacology, efficacy, safety, and dosage and administration of bendamustine and its use in indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are reviewed. SUMMARY: Bendamustine is an alkylating agent that has a unique, multifaceted mechanism of action. Compared with other alkylators, bendamustine produces more-extensive and long-lasting DNA damage. Bendamustine also inhibits cell-cycle checkpoints, leading to mitotic catastrophe and apoptosis. Bendamustine is approved for the treatment of CLL and for indolent B-cell NHL that has progressed during or within 6 months of treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-based regimen. In Phase II and III trials in patients with indolent NHL and CLL, bendamustine has demonstrated response rates of 67-84% as a single agent and median durations of response of 7-21 months. Additional clinical trials are examining bendamustine as a single agent and in combination therapy for the treatment of hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. Adverse events associated with bendamustine are typically mild to moderate and can usually be managed with  supportive care. Myelosuppression is the most common grade 3 or 4 adverse event.  Tumor lysis syndrome has been reported to occur in some patients, and preventive  measures should be taken in at-risk patients. The dosage and administration differ for the treatment of NHL and CLL. CONCLUSION: Bendamustine is a well- tolerated and effective chemotherapeutic agent indicated for the treatment of rituximab-refractory, indolent NHL and CLL.  It has demonstrated efficacy in patients whose disease is refractory to other therapies, including other alkylating agents."
100	"CLL is extremely heterogeneous in its clinical course, with some patients living  decades with no need for treatment whilst others have a rapidly aggressive clinical course. A major focus of research has been to try to identify those biological factors that influence this heterogeneity. The goal of therapy has been to maintain the best quality of life and treat only when patients become symptomatic from their disease. For the majority of patients this means following a "watch and wait" approach to determine the rate of progression of the disease and assess for development of symptoms. Any alteration to this approach will require identification of criteria that define patients sufficiently "high-risk"  that they gain benefit by introduction of early therapy. The use of molecular profiling to suggest particular therapies is currently appropriate only in defining the treatment of the minority of patients with 17p deletions or p53 mutations and in all other circumstances remains a clinical trial question."
101	"BACKGROUND: The combination of pentostatin (P), cyclophosphamide (C), and rituximab (R) achieved an overall response (OR) rate >90%, with >40% complete responses (CRs) in patients with untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: To evaluate whether the tolerability of this regimen could be enhanced without sacrificing efficacy, a phase 2 trial was conducted of P and R without C, using a higher P dose (4 mg/m(2)). Among the 33 patients enrolled, 82% were male, the median age was 65 years (9 patients were aged >or=70 years), and 64% were classified as having Rai stage III to IV disease. RESULTS: The OR rate was 76%, with 9 CRs (27%), 5 nodular partial responses, and  11 partial responses (PRs) reported. At the time of last follow-up, 29 of 33 patients were still alive at a median follow-up of 14 months (range, 1-34.8 months). Four (12%) patients experienced grade 3 or higher hematologic toxicity,  and 5 (15%) experienced grade 3 or higher nonhematologic toxicity. Comparison of  this trial with the previous PCR trial demonstrated that patients treated with PCR had a higher OR rate (91% vs 76%) and CR rate (41% vs 27%) compared with patients treated with PR. The median treatment-free survival for all accrued patients was notably longer in patients treated with PCR compared with PR (30 months vs 16 months). CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the current study suggest that increasing the dose of the purine nucleoside analogue does not eliminate the need for cyclophosphamide in chemoimmunotherapy for the treatment of CLL."
102	"BACKGROUND: Patients with recurrent/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL) often have chemotherapy-resistant disease, resulting in poor prognosis. The aim of this study was to learn if inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) would produce tumor responses. METHODS: This was a phase 2 study of oral single-agent everolimus (10 mg/day) for recurrent/refractory indolent lymphoid malignancies including CLL. RESULTS: Four of 22 patients with CLL (18%; 95% confidence interval, 5%-40%) achieved a partial remission to therapy. An unanticipated finding in this study was an increase in absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) associated with a decrease in  lymphadenopathy in 8 (36%) patients. ALC increased a median of 4.8-fold (range, 1.9- to 25.1-fold), and the clinically measurable lymphadenopathy decreased a median of 75.5% (range, 38%-93%) compared with baseline measurements. CONCLUSIONS: Everolimus has modest antitumor activity against CLL and can mobilize malignant cells from nodal masses into the peripheral circulation in a subset of CLL patients. Because CLL cells in lymphatic tissue and bone marrow can be more resistant to therapy than circulating CLL cells, the ability of everolimus to mobilize CLL cells into the circulation could be used in combination therapeutic regimens."
103	"Rituximab plays an important role in the treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). In spite of high response rates achieved with this monoclonal antibody, however,  many patients with NHL tend to relapse and become refractory to rituximab over time. At the 2009 meeting of the American Society of Hematology (ASH), researchers presented results from several new approaches that may provide a boost to the NHL treatment armamentarium.Important long-term safety data were presented for bendamustine, a bifunctional alkylating agent that was approved by  the US Food and Drug Administration in 2008 for chronic lymphocytic leukemia and  indolent B-cell NHL that is resistant to rituximab. In addition, emerging evidence concerning the combination of bendamustine, rituximab, and bortezomib was presented. Other trials discussed the use of novel monoclonal antibodies such as of atumumab, GA101, PRO131921, and inotuzumab ozogamicin, which are directed at new biological targets for the treatment of NHL. Researchers also discussed recent trials of lenalidomide, an oral immunomodulator, alone and in combination  with rituximab. Other novel agents discussed at the ASH meeting included clofarabine and CAL-101."
104	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) is an  immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis characterized by subendothelial and mesangial deposition of immune complexes. Autoimmune diseases and chronic infections, such as hepatitis C, are commonly recognized causes of MPGN; however, monoclonal gammopathy is a less widely recognized cause of MPGN. DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: We reviewed all renal biopsies of  MPGN in Mayo Clinic patients during a 6-year period to determine the association  of monoclonal gammopathy with MPGN. Results were correlated with electrophoresis  studies and bone marrow biopsies to clarify the relationship between MPGN and gammopathies. RESULTS: Of 126 patients with MPGN, 20 did not have workup for hepatitis B or C.  Of the remaining 106 patients, 25 (23.5%) were positive for hepatitis B or C. Of  the 81 hepatitis-negative patients, 13 were not evaluated for gammopathies. Of the remaining 68 patients, 28 (41.1%) had serum and/or urine electrophoresis studies positive for monoclonal gammopathy. Serum immunofixation electrophoresis  was the most sensitive method for diagnosing monoclonal gammopathy. Renal biopsy  showed a membranoproliferative pattern of injury; immunofluorescence microscopy was often instrumental in diagnosing the underlying gammopathy. On the basis of the bone marrow biopsy, monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance was the most common entity associated with MPGN. Other, less common causes included multiple myeloma, low-grade B cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. CONCLUSIONS: Monoclonal gammopathy is an important and common cause of MPGN; therefore, all patients with a diagnosis of MPGN should be evaluated for an underlying monoclonal gammopathy."
106	"OBJECTIVES: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a highly variable clinical course. This retrospective study is planned to assess the prognostic value of serum free light chain (sFLC) levels and FLC ratio (FLCR) in  CLL. METHODS: Quantitative levels of sFLC were measured nephelometrically in sera collected at diagnosis. The expressions of ZAP70 and CD38 were quantified by flow cytometry. Chromosomal abnormalities were determined by interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). RESULTS: In a cohort of 101 patients with a median follow-up of 29 (1-234) months, sFLC levels were found to be high in 55 patients (54.5%). An abnormal FLCR was found in 30 patients (29.7%). FISH-based genetic risk groups did not differ significantly with respect to sFLC and FLCR (P > 0.05). Median time to first treatment was shorter in patients with high sFLC levels (P = 0.02). Median  overall survival (OS) was shorter in patients with high sFLC levels (P = 0.01) and abnormal FLCR (P = 0.05). In patients with early stage disease, median OS was shorter in high sFLC (P = 0.03) and abnormal FLCR groups (P = 0.048). A relationship was observed between abnormal sFLC levels and CD38 positivity on logistic regression analysis (P = 0.003; OR: 4.44; 95% CI: 1.66-11.8). CONCLUSIONS: This study highlighted the adverse prognostic impact of high sFLC levels and abnormal FLCR with regard to survival in CLL, even in early stage patients. Prospective studies are warranted to validate the adverse impact of sFLC and FLCR on clinical outcome."
107	"BACKGROUND: T cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia may play an important role in contributing to the onset, sustenance, and exacerbation of the  disease by providing survival and proliferative signals to the leukemic clone within lymph nodes and bone marrow. DESIGN AND METHODS: By performing chemotaxis assays towards CXCL12, CCL21 and CCL19, we sought to evaluate the migratory potential of T cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. We next analyzed the chemokine-induced migration of T cells, dividing the chronic lymphocytic leukemia samples according to their  expression of the poor prognostic factors CD38 and ZAP-70 in leukemic cells determined by flow cytometry. RESULTS: We found that T cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia are less responsive to CXCL12, CCL21 and CCL19 than T cells from healthy adults despite similar CXCR4 and CCR7 expression. Following separation of the patients into two groups according to ZAP-70 expression, we found that T cells from ZAP-70-negative samples showed significantly less migration towards CXCL12 compared to T cells from ZAP-70-positive samples and that this was not due to defective CXCR4 down-regulation, F-actin polymerization or to a lesser expression of ZAP-70, CD3, CD45, CD38 or CXCR7 on these cells. Interestingly, we found that  leukemic cells from ZAP-70-negative samples seem to be responsible for the defective CXCR4 migratory response observed in their T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Impaired migration towards CXCL12 may reduce the access of T cells from ZAP-70-negative patients to lymphoid organs, creating a less favorable microenvironment for leukemic cell survival and proliferation."
108	"BACKGROUND: Understanding risk patterns for developing a second primary malignancy (SPM) after cutaneous melanoma (CM) has implications for both research and clinical practice, including cancer screening. OBJECTIVE: We sought to describe incidence patterns of SPMs occurring after CM. METHODS: We calculated incidence rates and relative risks for the development of  65 different SPMs occurring in 16,591 CM survivors during 1.3 million person-years of observation in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program data from 1973 to 2003. RESULTS: Compared with the general population, CM survivors had a 32% higher risk of developing any SPM and demonstrated significantly elevated risks for 13 cancers: melanoma of the skin (standardized incidence ratio [SIR] 8.99), soft tissue (SIR 2.80), melanoma of the eye and orbit (SIR 2.64), nonepithelial skin (SIR 2.31), salivary gland (SIR 2.18), bone and joint (SIR 1.70), thyroid (SIR 1.90), kidney (SIR 1.29), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SIR 1.29), brain and nervous system (SIR 1.31), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SIR 1.25), prostate (SIR 1.13),  and female breast (SIR 1.07). Risks of second primary melanoma of the skin, melanoma of the eye and orbit, and cancers of the prostate, soft tissue, salivary gland, and bone and joint were elevated throughout the study period, implying no  surveillance bias. LIMITATIONS: Possible underreporting of CM incidence in cancer registries is a limitation. In addition, the lack of individual-level data in cancer registry data precludes detailed examination of coincident risk factors. CONCLUSION: Risks of particular SPMs after CM may be explained by surveillance bias or shared risk factors. However, these probably do not explain the increased risks observed for prostate, soft tissue, salivary gland, and bone and joint cancers years after CM diagnosis. Further investigation into genetic or environmental commonalities between CM and these cancers is warranted."
109	"An immunocompromised patient presented with febrile episodes, an erysipelas-like  rash, and thromboembolic complications. Amplification of 16S rRNA gene sequences  from blood and sequence analysis revealed "Candidatus Neoehrlichia mikurensis." We report the first case of human disease caused by "Ca. Neoehrlichia mikurensis.""
110	"The hallmark of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the relentless accumulation of mature lymphocytes, mostly due to their decreased apoptosis. CD74 was recently shown to serve as a survival receptor on CLL cells. In this study, we show that stimulation of CD74 with its natural ligand, migration inhibitory factor, initiates a signaling cascade that results in upregulation of TAp63, which directly regulates CLL survival. In addition, TAp63 expression elevates the expression of the integrin VLA-4, particularly during the advanced stage of the disease. Blocking of CD74, TAp63, or VLA-4 inhibits the in vivo homing of CLL cells to the bone marrow (BM). Thus, CD74 and its target genes TAp63 and VLA-4 facilitate migration of CLL cells back to the BM, where they interact with the supportive BM environment that rescues them from apoptosis. These results could form the basis of novel therapeutic strategies aimed at blocking homing of CLL cells in their return to the BM and attenuating their survival."
111	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a monoclonal expansion of  mature B-lymphocytes. Mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain region (IGHV) gene stratifies CLL patients into two prognostic groups. We performed microarray analysis of CLL cells using the Agilent platform to detect the most important gene expression differences regarding IGHV status in CLL cells. We analyzed a cohort of 118 CLL patients with different IGHV mutational status and completely characterized all described prognostic markers using expression microarrays and quantitative real-time RT-PCR (reverse transcription PCR). We detected lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG3) as a novel prognostic marker: LAG3 high expression in CLL cells correlates with unmutated IGHV (P < 0.0001) and reduced treatment-free survival (P = 0.0087). Furthermore, quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis identified a gene-set (LAG3, LPL, ZAP70) whose overexpression is assigned to unmutated IGHV with 90% specificity (P < 0.0001). Moreover, high expression of tested gene-set and unmutated IGHV equally  correlated with reduced treatment-free survival (P = 7.7 * 10(-11) vs. P = 1.8 *  10(-11)). Our results suggest that IGHV status can be precisely assessed using the expression analysis of LAG3, LPL, and ZAP70 genes. Expression data of tested  markers provides a similar statistical concordance with treatment-free survival as that of the IGHV status itself. Our findings contribute to the elucidation of  CLL pathogenesis and provide novel prognostic markers for possible application in routine diagnostics."
112	"A fraction of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) carries highly homologous B-cell receptors, characterized by non-random combinations of immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) genes and heavy-chain complementarity-determining region-3 (HCDR3), often associated with a restricted selection of IG(K/L)V light chains. We analyzed the features of CLL expressing homologous HCDR3 in a cohort of 264 Ukrainian patients by merging them with a recently published reference series of  1426 cases. This approach allowed us to identify 96/264 (36%) cases as expressing homologous HCDR3, subdivided into 47 subsets. Among these, 27 apparently novel subsets were identified, although most of them were composed of two sequences per subset ('potential subsets'). CLL cases belonging to several stereotyped subsets  showed HCDR3 homologies with various autoreactive clones. Our analysis identified molecular and clinical features of a Ukrainian cohort of patients with CLL."
114	"Small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are considered as similar entity by the WHO classification. We assessed the distribution of the four prognostic cytogenetic markers (deletion 11q23, 13q14, 17p13 and trisomy 12) and VH mutational status in 32 SLL and 119 CLL. Trisomy 12  was most frequent (36% vs 13%, p=0.014) and 13q14 deletion was less frequent (9%  vs 44%, p=0.001) in SLL in comparison with CLL. An over representation of VH3-21  gene usage was found in SLL (17% vs 1%, p=0.011). In conclusion, SLL show specific genetic markers that distinguish them from classical CLL."
115	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common adult leukemia. Deregulation of the T-cell leukemia/lymphoma 1 (TCL1) oncogene in mouse B cells causes a CD5-positive leukemia similar to aggressive human B-CLLs. We recently reported that levels of TCL1 expression in B-CLL are regulated by miR-29 and miR-181 that target 3' UTR of TCL1. To determine whether treatment with microRNAs targeting TCL1 can inhibit B-CLL in mice, we generated TCL1 transgenic mice using a construct containing the 3' and 5' UTRs of TCL1 under B-cell-specific Emicro promoter (Emicro-TCL1FL). At the age of 16-20 months, these mice showed B-CLL-like disease. Immunophenotyping revealed accumulation of CD5+CD23+B220+ population in spleens and lymph nodes. Our results show that CD5+CD23+ B-cell populations from Emicro-TCL1FL mice actively proliferate and show significantly increased levels of phospho-Akt. Emicro-TCL1FL mice showed immunological abnormalities similar to human B-CLL, including hypoimmunoglobulinemia, abnormal  levels of cytokines and impaired immune response. These findings revealed biochemical and immunological similarities between Tcl1-driven B-CLL in mice and  human B-CLL."
117	"Homing of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells to sites favoring growth, a critical step in disease progression, is principally coordinated by the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis. A cohort of 62 CLL patients was divided into migrating and nonmigrating subsets according to chemotaxis toward CXCL12. Migrating patients phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) proteins more than nonmigrating patients (P<0.0002). CD38 expression was the parameter most strongly associated with heightened CXCL12 signaling (P<0.0001), confirmed by independent statistical approaches. Consistent with this observation, CD38(-) CLL cells in samples with bimodal CD38 expression responded less to CXCL12 than the intact clone (P=0.003). Furthermore, lentivirus-induced de novo expression of CD38 was paralleled by increased responses to CXCL12, as compared with cells infected with a control virus. CD38 ligation with agonistic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) enhanced CXCL12 signaling, whereas blocking anti-CD38 mAbs inhibited chemokine effects in vitro. This is attributed to physical proximity on the membrane between CD38 and CXCR4 (the CXCL12 receptor), as shown by (i) coimmunoprecipitation and (ii) confocal microscopy experiments. Blocking anti-CD38 mAbs significantly compromised homing of CLL cells from blood to lymphoid organs in a mouse model. These results indicate that CD38 synergizes with the CXCR4 pathway and support the working hypothesis that migration is a central step in disease progression."
118	"Clinical trials have shown activity of the isotype-selective histone deacetylase  (HDAC) inhibitor MGCD0103 in different hematologic malignancies. There are data to support the use of HDAC inhibitors in association with other cancer therapies. To propose a rational combination therapy, it is necessary to depict the molecular basis behind the cytotoxic effect of MGCD0103. In this study, we found  that MGCD0103 was substantially more toxic in neoplastic B cells relative to normal cells, and we described the death pathways activated by MGCD0103 in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells from 32 patients. MGCD0103 decreased the expression of Mcl-1 and induced translocation of Bax to the mitochondria, mitochondrial depolarization, and release of cytochrome c in the cytosol. Caspase processing in the presence of the caspase inhibitor Q-VD-OPh and time course experiments showed that caspase-9 was the apical caspase. Thus, MGCD0103 induced  the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis in CLL cells. Moreover, MGCD0103 treatment resulted in the activation of a caspase cascade downstream of caspase-9, caspase-dependent amplification of mitochondrial depolarization, activation of calpain, and Bax cleavage. We propose a model whereby the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis triggered by MGCD0103 in CLL is associated with a mitochondrial death amplification loop."
119	"PURPOSE: We determined the potential value of protein profiling of tissue samples by assessing how precise this approach enables discrimination of B-cell lymphoma  from reactive lymph nodes, and how well the profiles can be used for lymphoma classification. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Protein lysates from lymph nodes (n=239) from patients with  the diagnosis of reactive hyperplasia (n=44), follicular lymphoma (n=63), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (n=43), mantle cell lymphoma (n=47), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic B-cell lymphoma (n=42) were analysed by SELDI-TOF MS. Data analysis was performed by (i) classification and regression tree-based analysis and (ii) binary and polytomous logistic regression analysis. RESULTS: After internal validation by the leave-one-out principle, both the classification and regression tree and logistic regression classification correctly identified the majority of the malignant (87 and 96%, respectively) and benign cases (73 and 75%, respectively). Classification was less successful since approximately one-third of the cases of each group were misclassified according to the histological classification. However, an additional mantle cell lymphoma case that was misclassified as chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic B-cell lymphoma initially was identified based on the protein profile. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: SELDI-TOF MS protein profiling allows for reliable identification of the majority of malignant lymphoma cases; however, further validation and testing robustness in a diagnostic setting is needed."
120	"Although infiltration of the gallbladder by lymphoma is rare, it has to be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with cholecystitis-like symptoms. The most common lymphomas masquerading as acute cholecystitis are mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and large B-cell lymphoma. We describe a 75-year-old patient who presented with an acute cholecystitis-like picture, featuring chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with gallbladder wall involvement as the initial disease presentation. The cholecystectomy specimen showed perineural invasion present within the gallbladder wall, which likely accounted for the patient's right upper quadrant abdominal tenderness. In this way, we would like to alert clinicians and pathologists alike to CLL as yet another cause of a cholecystitis-like symptomatology."
124	"Human concentrative nucleoside transporter-3 (hCNT3) is a sodium-coupled nucleoside transporter that exhibits high affinity and broad substrate selectivity, making it the most suitable candidate for mediating the uptake and cytotoxic action of most nucleoside-derived drugs. The drug of this class most commonly used in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the pro-apoptotic nucleoside analog fludarabine (Flu), which enters CLL cells primarily through human equilibrative nucleoside transporters (hENTs). Although CLL cells lack hCNT3 activity, they do express this transporter protein, which is located mostly in the cytosol. The aim of our study was to identify agents and mechanisms capable of promoting hCNT3 trafficking to the plasma membrane. Here, we report that all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), currently used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), increases hCNT3-related activity through a mechanism that involves trafficking of pre-existing hCNT3 proteins to the plasma  membrane. This effect is mediated by the autocrine action of transforming growth  factor (TGF)-beta1, which is transcriptionally activated by ATRA in a p38-dependent manner. TGF-beta1 acts through activation of ERK1/2 and the small GTPase RhoA to promote plasma membrane trafficking of the hCNT3 protein."
125	"Systemic mastocytosis with associated clonal haematological non-mast cell lineage disease (SM-AHNMD) is a heterogeneous group of mast cell disorders with different clinical, pathologic and underlying molecular characteristics. While myelomonocytic/myeloid neoplasia overwhelmingly predominates the AHNMD component, lymphoproliferative disorders rarely occur as an AHNMD component of SM-AHNMD. Here we report two cases of SM-AHNMD, in which the AHNMD component is chronic lymphocytic leukemia in one case, and concurrent chronic lymphocytic leukemia as  well as plasma cell myeloma in another case. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of SM-AHNMD with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and plasma cell dyscrasia simultaneously."
126	"Recent studies show that redox-active small molecules are selectively cytotoxic to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Although elevated levels of reactive oxygen species in CLL cells have been implicated, the molecular mechanism underlying this selectivity is unclear. In other cell types, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathway regulates the oxidative stress response. We found elevated Nrf2 signaling in untreated CLL cells compared with normal lymphocytes. Therefore, we tested 27 known electrophilic and antioxidant compounds with drug-like properties and determined their CLL-selective cytotoxicity and effect on Nrf2 signaling. The selected compounds were from five distinct structural classes; alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyls, isothiocyanates, sulfhydryl reactive metals, flavones, and polyphenols. Our results show that compounds containing alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyls, sulfhydryl reactive metals, and isothiocyanates are strong activators of Nrf2 in  a reporter assay system and in primary human CLL based on increased expression of the Nrf2 target heme oxygenase-1. alpha-beta Unsaturated carbonyl-containing compounds were selectively cytotoxic to CLL, and loss of the alpha-beta unsaturation abrogated Nrf2 activity and CLL toxicity. The alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyl containing compounds ethacrynic acid and parthenolide activated Nrf2 in  normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells, but had a less potent effect in CLL cells. Furthermore, ethacrynic acid bound directly to the Nrf2-negative regulator Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1) in CLL cells. These experiments document the presence of Nrf2 signaling in human CLL and suggest that altered Nrf2 responses may contribute to the observed selective cytotoxicity of electrophilic compounds in this disease."
127	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) expresses CD160, a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked receptor found on normal natural killer (NK)  and T cells, but not B cells. CD160 is a multifunctional molecule in normal lymphocytes, but its role in CLL biology is unknown. In vitro, CLL cells undergo  rapid spontaneous apoptosis, which CD160 activation protected against-mean cell viability increased from 67% to 79% (P < .001). This was associated with up-regulation of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and Mcl-1, but not Bax. As expected from these changes in Bcl-2/Bax and Bcl-xL/Bax ratios, CD160 triggering reduced mitochondrial membrane potential collapse and cytochrome c release. CD160 stimulation also induced DNA synthesis, cell cycle progression, and proliferation. B-cell antigen receptor (BCR)-induced CLL proliferation was generally greater than with CD160, but marked variation was seen. Both BCR and CD160 signaling led to CLL secretion of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-8, although CD160 induced greater increases of IL-6 (51-fold) and IL-8 (15-fold). Survival and activation signals mediated by CD160 showed dose-dependent suppression by phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) inhibitors. Thus, in vitro, CLL cells can use the CD160 pathway for survival and activation, mimicking CD160 signaling in normal NK and CD8(+) T cells. Establishing the pathophysiologic relevance of these findings may reveal new therapeutic targets."
128	"Dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatase PRL-2 is overexpressed in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and is located at human chromosome 1p35, a region often rearranged or amplified in malignant lymphoma and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Little is known of the significance of PRL-2 expression in hematopoietic malignancies. Herein we demonstrated that ectopic expression of PRL-2 in murine pre-B-cell line Baf3ER and mouse bone marrow cells  induced key features associated with malignant progression and metastasis. PRL-2-transfected Baf3ER cells had augmented growth responses to hematopoietic growth factors Epo or IL-3 with shortened cell cycle, reduced requirement (5x) for Epo in cell survival, increased cell migration (3x), reduced cell adhesion (5x), and conversion to an immature cell morphology in association with increased expression (3x) of stem cell marker Bmi-1. When transduced into mouse bone marrow cells, PRL-2 increased Epo-induced colony formation (4x) and gave rise to larger  colonies. These observations provide evidences implicating PRL-2 as a pathogenic  molecule in hematopoietic malignancies and suggest its potential as a novel therapeutic target."
131	"We report a case of a 47-year-old man diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with two extra copies of chromosome 8. Classical cytogenetic analysis by the immunostimulatory combination of DSP30 and interleukin 2 showed tetrasomy of  chromosome 8 in 60% of the metaphase cells (48,XY,+8,+8[12]/46,XY[8]). Spectral karyotype analysis confirmed the abnormality previously seen by G banding. Additionally, interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization using an LSI CEP 8 probe performed on peripheral blood cells without any stimulant agent showed tetrasomy of chromosome 8 in 54% of analyzed cells (108 of 200). To our knowledge, tetrasomy 8 as the sole chromosomal abnormality in CLL has not been previously described. The prognostic significance of tetrasomy 8 in CLL remains to be elucidated. However, the patient has been followed up in the outpatient hospital since 2004 without any therapeutic intervention and has so far remained  stable."
132	"This study aimed to determine which culture method would yield the highest culture success rate, mitotic index, banding resolution, and abnormality rate in  investigation of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A range of culture techniques for conventional cytogenetic (CC) analyses was compared: 24-hour unstimulated, 72 hours incubation with additional fetal calf serum, 72 hours stimulation with interleukin 4, 72 hours stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), 72 hours stimulation with TPA (12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate), and 72 hours stimulation with CpG-oligonucleotide DSP30 + Interleukin-2 (IL-2). CC abnormality rates were also  compared to fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) results using probes for CLL (LSI D13S319/13q34/CEP 12: LSI ATM/p53). Forty-five samples from 24 patients  (consisting of 11 newly diagnosed and 13 previously diagnosed patients) were included. For CC, a 100.0% culture success rate was achieved (n = 45) by means of an EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) peripheral blood sample with an associated 62.5% CC abnormality rate (n = 24). FISH detected an abnormality rate  of 75.0% (n = 24). The combined CC and FISH abnormality rate was 87.5% (n = 24).  This study demonstrates that CC that uses TPA and DSP30 + IL-2 on EDTA peripheral blood is effective in the investigation of CLL and may be used as a supplement to FISH studies."
133	"Richter's transformation (RT) is the development of a high-grade lymphoma in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL). We report an extremely rare case with paraimmunoblastic transformation. A 78-year-old Taiwanese male had Rai stage 1 and Binet stage B CLL/SLL involving skin, peripheral blood (PB), and bone marrow (BM) with paraimmunoblastic transformation in the lymph node. Molecular/genomic studies showed the same clonal origin of tumor tissues at various locations with trisomy  12 and a deletion of chromosome 13q14. Interestingly, there seemed to be no additional chromosomal aberrations in the transformed nodal tissue, suggesting that the micro-environment rather than an additional genetic lesion contributed to the transformation. The patient received chemotherapy and was alive with disease after 33.5 months."
134	"PURPOSE Little is known about comparison of the activity of different purine nucleoside analogs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We conducted a randomized phase III trial to compare efficacy and safety of cladribine and fludarabine, each combined with cyclophosphamide, in previously untreated progressive CLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS Patients received cladribine at 0.12 mg/kg  combined with cyclophosphamide at 250 mg/m(2) for 3 days intravenously (CC regimen) or fludarabine at 25 mg/m(2) combined with cyclophosphamide at 250 mg/m(2) for 3 days intravenously (FC regimen), every 28 days for up to six cycles. The primary end point was complete response (CR) rate. Secondary end points included overall response rate (ORR), progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and treatment-related toxicity. RESULTS Of 423 randomly assigned patients (211 to CC and 212 to FC), 395 were evaluated in the final analysis. The CR and ORR reached 47% and 88% in the CC arm and 46% and 82% in the FC arm (P = .25 and P = .11, respectively). The median PFS was 2.34 years with CC and 2.27 years with FC (P = .51). OS and grade 3/4 treatment-related toxicity were also comparable. Moreover, we did not observe any significant differences in CC and FC efficacy across different patient prognostic subgroups that included patients with 17p13 (TP53 gene) deletion who had poor survival in both study arms. CONCLUSION Cladribine and fludarabine in combination with cyclophosphamide  are equally effective and safe first-line regimens for progressive CLL. Both combinations have unsatisfactory activity in patients with 17p13 (TP53 gene) deletion."
136	"We report a case of common mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) with subcutis infiltration  and transformation to blastoid MCL in the overlying dermis. The patient was initially diagnosed as having chronic lymphocytic leukemia and treated with chemotherapy. Eight months after the diagnosis of MCL with bone marrow involvement, subcutaneous nodules developed on the patient's left thigh and forearm. A skin biopsy showed a massive infiltration of neoplastic lymphocytes throughout the dermis and subcutaneous tissue. In the upper dermis, there was a perivascular mixed infiltrate of atypical large lymphoid cells and small-sized cells. In the mid to lower dermis, the infiltrate was dense with a nodular growth pattern and was composed of atypical large lymphoblast-like cells with large nuclei, dispersed chromatin, and numerous mitoses. In the subcutaneous tissue, there was a diffuse infiltration of neoplastic cells with common MCL cytologic features characterized by small- to medium-sized lymphoid cells. Cells in the common and blastoid variants of MCL were immunohistochemically positive for CD20  and cyclin D1 but negative for CD5. Neoplastic lymphocytes from the patient's bone marrow had the typical morphologic features and the immunophenotype of MCL (ie, CD5, CD20, cyclin D1, CD10, and CD23). Other case reports in the medical literature indicate that an MCL with skin invasion tends to have a poor prognosis. Our patient died 3 months after the appearance of skin invasion."
140	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a monoclonal B-cell malignancy that afflicts mainly older individuals. Since many patients are diagnosed in the earliest stages, the course of the disease may be indolent and asymptomatic, requiring no therapy. For those who are diagnosed in advanced stages or whose disease becomes symptomatic, treatment is indicated. Advances in identifying prognostic factors, such as cytogenetics, IgHV mutational status, CD38, TP53, and ZAP-70, are helping physicians better predict who is more likely to have progressive disease and thus needs more frequent monitoring. Some of these prognostic factors are also helping to guide therapy choices as they can predict  response to treatment and/or duration of response. Recent advances in treatment options have moved beyond traditional management with alkylating agents and purine analogs into regimens combining these two chemotherapy classes with monoclonal antibodies targeting CD20. Chemoimmunotherapy with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR) has become the most effective therapy option to date for CLL. Compared with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, FCR has shown higher complete response rates and longer progression-free survival. Bendamustine, a unique alkylating agent with purine analog properties, has recently been approved by the FDA for treatment of CLL and provides a new alternative to existing therapies. Initial trials combining bendamustine with rituximab are showing promise for both untreated and relapsed/refractory disease. Other agents recently approved and/or being tested, such as ofatumumab, flavopiridol, and lenalidomide, are demonstrating activity in the relapsed setting."
141	"BACKGROUND: There is strong and consistent evidence that a genetic component contributes to the etiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A recent genome-wide association study of CLL identified seven genetic variants that increased the risk of CLL within a European population. METHODS: We evaluated the association of these variants, or variants in linkage disequilibrium with these variants, with CLL risk in an independent sample of 438 CLL cases and 328 controls. RESULTS: Of these seven single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), six had P trend <  0.05 and had estimated odds ratios (OR) that were strikingly comparable to those  of the previous study. Associations were seen for rs9378805 [OR, 1.47; 95% confidence intervals (CI), 1.19-1.80; P trend = 0.0003] near IRF4 and rs735665 near GRAMD1B (OR, 1.47; 95% CI, 1.14-1.89; P trend = 0.003). However, no associations (P > 0.05) were found for rs11083846, nor were any found for any SNP in linkage disequilibrium with rs11083846. CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirm the previous findings and further support the role of a genetic basis in the etiology of CLL; however, more research is needed  to elucidate the causal SNP(s) and the potential manner in which these SNPs or linked SNPs function in CLL pathogenesis."
142	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is associated with recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities that are important prognostic indicators and may influence treatment choices. Nonetheless, several chromosome abnormalities have not yet been completely determined, because of the low mitotic in vitro activity of B-CLL cells. Now, novel technologies such as stimulation of CLL cells with new B-cell mitogens have helped to overcome this problem. We present here a novel conventional and molecular cytogenetic study of a CLL patient with t(6;13)(p21;q14.1), a rare chromosomal aberration. The findings contribute to the identification of rare recurrent aberrations and of any prognostic effect in CLL  that could be used for prognostic and therapeutic purposes. The present study demonstrates that t(6;13)(p21;q14.1) as a secondary event to the interstitial deletion in 13q14 region, resulting in the loss of RB1, is a rare but nonrandom abnormality in CLL, resistant to the current treatment CLL protocols with a rather favorable or intermediate prognosis but definitely not an adverse prognosis. Further studies in more CLL patients are required to delineate the prognostic value of t(6;13)(p21;q14.1) and to identify any candidate genes with potential role in the pathogenesis of the disease."
144	"PURPOSE: Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remain B-cell malignancies with limited therapeutic options. The present study investigates the in vitro and in vivo effect of the phospholipid ether edelfosine (1-O-octadecyl-2-O-methyl-rac-glycero-3-phosphocholine) in MCL and CLL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Several cell lines, patient-derived tumor cells, and xenografts in severe combined immunodeficient mice were used to examine the anti-MCL and anti-CLL activity of edelfosine. Furthermore, we analyzed the mechanism of action and drug biodistribution of edelfosine in MCL and CLL tumor-bearing severe combined immunodeficient mice. RESULTS: Here, we have found that the phospholipid ether edelfosine was the most  potent alkyl-lysophospholipid analogue in killing MCL and CLL cells, including patient-derived primary cells, while sparing normal resting lymphocytes. Alkyl-lysophospholipid analogues ranked edelfosine > perifosine >> erucylphosphocholine > or = miltefosine in their capacity to elicit apoptosis in  MCL and CLL cells. Edelfosine induced coclustering of Fas/CD95 death receptor and rafts in MCL and CLL cells. Edelfosine was taken up by malignant cells, whereas normal resting lymphocytes hardly incorporated the drug. Raft disruption by cholesterol depletion inhibited drug uptake, Fas/CD95 clustering, and edelfosine-induced apoptosis. Edelfosine oral administration showed a potent in vivo anticancer activity in MCL and CLL xenograft mouse models, and the drug accumulated dramatically and preferentially in the tumor. CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that edelfosine accumulates and kills MCL and CLL  cells in a rather selective way, and set coclustering of Fas/CD95 and lipid rafts as a new framework in MCL and CLL therapy. Our data support a selective antitumor action of edelfosine."
145	"The interleukin (IL)-7 receptor (IL-7R) is expressed on human pre-B but not mature B-cells. We hypothesised that aberrant expression of IL-7R contributes to  B-cell oncogenesis. Surface expression of IL-7R components CD127 and CD132, and intracellular Ki-67 and Bcl-2 were examined by flow cytometry on peripheral blood or bone marrow mononuclear cells (PBMC; BMMC) from patients with B-cell derived neoplasms, chronic human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) infection alone, or healthy volunteers. Plasma IL-7, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-21, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma and BAFF were measured by enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay or bead array. The effects of exogenous IL-7 on PBMC and BMMC were examined. CD127 expression was elevated in pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pre-B-ALL) and in some cases of Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (B-NHL). Plasma IL-7 levels were higher in pre-B-ALL, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and HIV-1 associated B-NHL (HIV-B-NHL) compared with control groups. CD127+ pre-B-ALL cells had higher expression of Ki-67, Bcl-2 and CD132 than CD127- counterparts. Unlike  T-lineage cells, CD127+ pre-B-ALL cells did not down-regulate CD127 in response to exogenous IL-7. Patients with B-cell derived neoplasms had elevated circulating IL-10 and decreased BAFF. These findings support a role for the IL-7/IL-7R system in B-cell oncogenesis."
146	"We present a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and thrombocytopenia who underwent a percutaneous coronary intervention. Such patients are at increased risk for ischemic and hemorrhagic complications and the choice of anticoagulant therapy should be made very carefully. Unfractionated heparin or glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors may cause thrombocytopenia and increased bleeding. Bivalirudin therapy is safer in such patients. However, bivalirudin is not always available. We used enoxaparin, a low-molecular-weight heparin, as an anticoagulant in a case in which bivalirudin was not available. No ischemic or hemorrhagic complications were seen in the follow-up period. We suggest that low-molecular-weight heparin may be effective and safe as an alternative to bivalirudin in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and thrombocytopenia when bivalirudin is unavailable."
148	"Bendamustine is an old bifunctional alkylating agent that also has potential antimetabolite properties, and only partial cross-resistance with other alkylators. Although it was synthesized in 1963 only few validated study results  exist from this early period. More recently, its peculiar mechanism of action has reawakened interest in this drug that has been extensively studied in indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Experience  has also been reported in high-grade NHL and Hodgkin disease. Based on its unique structure, various strategies can be used for mechanism-based combination chemotherapeutic regimens with bendamustine. Moreover, data indicates that bendamustine when combined with rituximab is a valid therapeutic choice for patients with CLL or low-grade NHL demonstrating refractoriness to standard chemotherapy regimens. Furthermore, its documented favorable toxicity profile makes it a particularly useful treatment option for elderly patients."
149	"Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (I-FISH) studies have a remarkable  prognostic value in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). I-FISH studies can be performed either on tetradecanoylphorbol acetate stimulated peripheral blood cells (I-FISH-TPA) or unstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear  cells (I-FISH-PBMC). The aim of the study was to evaluate whether this finding was clinically relevant in a group of 235 patients with CLL. Fifty-six patients had both I-FISH-TPA and I-FISH-PBMC results. Compared with uncultured cells, the  cytogenetic detection rate rose from 57 to 80% with the use of TPA-stimulated cells (P = 0.014). I-FISH-TPA provided a better prediction of treatment-free survival compared with I-FISH-PBMC (P = 0.031 vs. 0.166). Then, I-FISH-PBMC results from 93 historical patients were compared with 86 recent patients with I-FISH-TPA results. Genomic aberrations were detected in 46 and 67% of patients from the I-FISH-PBMC and I-FISH-TPA cohorts, respectively. The detection rate of  13q deletion as the only aberration increased from 10% with I-FISH-PBMC to 37% with I-FISH-TPA (P = 0.006). In conclusion, I-FISH-TPA increased the detection rate of 13q deletion and had an improved prognostic value compared with I-FISH-PBMC."
150	"Copy number losses in chromosome arm 9p are well-known aberrations in malignancies, including leukemias. The CDKN2A gene is suggested to play a key role in these aberrations. In this study overviewing 9p losses in hematologic neoplasias, we introduce the term focal 9p instability to indicate multiple areas of copy number loss or homozygous loss within a larger heterozygous one in 9p. We have used microarray comparative genomic hybridization to study patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL, n = 140), acute myeloid leukemia (n = 50), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 20), and myelodysplastic syndromes (n = 37). Our results show that 9p instability is restricted to ALL. In total, 58/140 (41%) patients with ALL had a loss in 9p. The 9p instability was detected in 19% of the patients with ALL and always included homozygous loss of CDKN2A along with loss of CDKN2B. Other possibly important genes included MTAP, IFN, MLLT3, JAK2, PTPLAD2, and PAX5. 13/27 (48%) patients with the instability had the BCR/ABL1 fusion gene or other oncogene-activating translocation or structural aberrations. Two patients had homozygous loss of hsa-mir -31, a microRNA known to regulate IKZF1. IKZF1 deletion at 7p12.1 was seen in 10 (37%) patients with the 9p instability. These findings suggest that, in ALL leukemogenesis, loss of CDKN2A and other target genes in the instability region is frequently associated with BCR/ABL1 and IKZF1 dysfunction. The multiple mechanisms leading to 9p instability including physical or epigenetic loss of the target genes, loss of the microRNA cluster, and the role of FRA9G fragile site are discussed."
152	"PURPOSE: Overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) intermediates above the  functional capability of cellular antioxidants may result in instability of important macromolecules and represents the molecular basis of many diseases including inflammation processes, cardiovascular alterations, cancer etc. The purpose of this study was to determine plasma level of superoxide anion, hydrogen-peroxide and malondialdehyde (MDA) as markers of oxidative stress and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) as antioxidant enzymes in B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients. METHODS: The study included 29 untreated B-CLL patients in stage A, and 21 in stages B and C, classified according to the Binet system; 31 healthy volunteers formed the control group. After centrifugation of heparinized peripheral blood, plasma levels of all investigated parameters were determined using spectrophotometric methods. RESULTS: Plasma CAT activity was increased in B-CLL patients compared with control subjects; also, progression of disease was related with significantly higher plasma activity of CAT. Also, B-CLL patients showed significantly higher plasma concentration of MDA compared with controls. No statistically significant  differences of superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide as well as plasma activity  of SOD and GPx between the tested groups were noted. CONCLUSION: Increase of CAT activity in B-CLL patients indicates that there is stimulation of the antioxidant enzyme system, while the increase of MDA concentration shows increased lipid peroxidation level. According to these results it could be concluded that an imbalance exists between oxidants and antioxidants in the plasma of B-CLL patients."
154	"PURPOSE: Rituximab, a monoclonal antibody that targets the CD20 cell surface antigen, has clinical activity in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and other  B-lymphocyte disorders when administered alone or in combination with chemotherapy. Promising results have previously been reported in nonrandomized studies in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This trial was designed to compare chemoimmunotherapy with chemotherapy alone in patients with previously treated CLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This international, multicenter, randomized trial compared  six cycles of rituximab plus fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (R-FC) with six cycles of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide alone (FC) in patients with previously treated CLL. A total of 552 patients with Binet stage A (1%), B (59%), or C (31%) disease entered the study and were randomly assigned to receive R-FC (n = 276) or FC (n = 276). RESULTS: After a median follow-up time of 25 months, rituximab significantly improved progression-free survival in patients with previously treated CLL (hazard ratio = 0.65; P < .001; median, 30.6 months for R-FC v 20.6 months for FC). Event-free survival, response rate, complete response rate, duration of response, and time to new CLL treatment or death were also significantly improved. Although the rates of adverse events, grade 3 or 4 events, and serious  adverse events were slightly higher in the R-FC arm, R-FC was generally well tolerated, with no new safety findings and no detrimental effect on quality of life. CONCLUSION: R-FC significantly improved the outcome of patients with previously treated CLL."
162	"The receptor for hyaluronic acid-mediated motility (RHAMM) is a tumor-associated  antigen in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CD8(+) T cells primed with the RHAMM-derived epitope R3, which is restricted by human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A2, effectively lyse RHAMM(+) CLL cells. Therefore, we initiated a phase I  clinical trial of R3 peptide vaccination. Six HLA-A2(+) CLL patients were vaccinated four times at biweekly intervals with the R3 peptide (ILSLELMKL; 300 microg per dose) emulsified in incomplete Freund's adjuvant; granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (100 microg per dose) was administered concomitantly. Detailed immunological analyses were conducted throughout the course of peptide vaccination. No severe adverse events greater than CTC I degrees skin toxicity were observed. Four patients exhibited reduced white blood cell counts during vaccination. In five of six patients, R3-specific  CD8(+) T cells were detected with the corresponding peptide/HLA-A2 tetrameric complex; these populations were verified functionally in four of five patients using enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot) assays. In patients with clinical responses, we found increased frequencies of R3-specific CD8(+) T cells  that expressed high levels of CD107a and produced both interferon-gamma and granzyme B in response to antigen challenge. Interestingly, vaccination was also  associated with the induction of regulatory T cells in four patients. Thus peptide vaccination in six CLL patients was safe and could elicit to some extent  specific CD8(+) T-cell responses against the tumor antigen RHAMM."
166	"Chemotherapeutic agents modify intracellular signaling that culminates in the inhibition of Bcl-2 family members and initiates apoptosis. Inhibition of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase by PD98059 dramatically accelerates vinblastine-mediated apoptosis in ML-1 leukemia with cells dying in 4 hours from  all phases of the cell cycle. Inhibition of protein synthesis by cycloheximide also markedly accelerated vinblastine-induced apoptosis, showing that the proteins required for this acute apoptosis are constitutively expressed. Vinblastine induced the rapid induction of Mcl-1 that was inhibited by PD98059 and cycloheximide. No change in Bcl-2 or Bcl-X was observed. We hypothesize that  ML-1 cells use Mcl-1 for protection from the rapid vinblastine-induced apoptosis. This was confirmed by targeting Mcl-1 with short hairpin RNA. We also investigated the response of 13 other leukemia and lymphoma cell lines and cells  from seven chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. Four cell lines and all chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells were killed in 6 hours by vinblastine alone. Two additional cell lines were sensitized to vinblastine by PD98059, which suppressed Mcl-1. This acute apoptosis either alone or in combination with PD98059 required  vinblastine-mediated activation of c-Jun-NH(2)-terminal kinase. PD98059 did not suppress Mcl-1 in other cell lines whereas sorafenib did, but this did not sensitize the cells to vinblastine, suggesting that the acute apoptosis varies depending on which Bcl-2 protein mediates protection. Most of the cell lines were sensitized to vinblastine by cycloheximide, suggesting that inhibition of a short-lived protein in addition to Mcl-1 can acutely sensitize cells. These results suggest several clinical strategies that might provide an effective therapy for selected patients. Mol Cancer Ther; 9(4); 791-802. (c)2010 AACR."
167	"AT7519 is a potent inhibitor of several cyclin-dependent kinases and is currently in early phase clinical development. Recently, cyclin-dependent kinases 7, 8, and 9 have been shown to regulate transcription through phosphorylation of RNA polymerase II. B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia, rely on the expression of transcripts with a short half-life, such as Mcl-1, Bcl-2, and XIAP, for survival. Here, we describe the characterization of AT7519 in leukemia cell lines, and compare and contrast the response in cell lines derived from solid tumors. Finally, we use these mechanistic insights to show activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from 16 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. AT7519 induced apoptosis  at concentrations of 100 to 700 nmol/L and was equally effective regardless of Rai stage or known prognostic markers. Short-term treatments (4-6 hours) resulted in inhibition of phosphorylation of the transcriptional marker RNA polymerase II  and downregulation of the antiapoptotic protein Mcl-1, with no effect on either XIAP or Bcl-2 levels. The reduction in Mcl-1 protein level was associated with an increase in cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Together the data suggest AT7519 offers a promising treatment for patients with advanced B-cell leukemia. Mol Cancer Ther; 9(4); 920-8. (c)2010 AACR."
169	"BACKGROUND: Lymphoid enhancer factor-1 (lef-1) is overexpressed in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) when compared with normal B cells and transcribes several genes implicated in the pathogenesis of CLL. We therefore hypothesize that antagonism of lef-1 might lead to killing of CLL cells. We used two small molecule inhibitors of Wnt/beta-catenin/lef-1 signaling (CGP049090 and PKF115-584) to test our hypothesis. DESIGN AND METHODS: Enriched CLL cells and healthy B cells were used in this study. Small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated knockdown of lef-1 in primary CLL cells was done using nucleofection, and 50% lethal concentration (LC(50)) of two  small molecules was assessed using ATP-based cell viability assay. Apoptotic response was investigated in time course experiments with different apoptotic markers. Specificity of the small molecules was demonstrated by coimmunoprecipitation experiments for the lef-1/beta-catenin interaction. In vivo studies were done in JVM-3 subcutaneous xenograft model. RESULTS: Inhibition of lef-1 by siRNA leads to increased apoptosis of CLL cells and inhibited proliferation of JVM-3 cell lines. The two small molecule inhibitors (CGP049090 and PKF115-584) efficiently kill CLL cells (LC(50)<1 microM), whereas normal B cells were not significantly affected. Coimmunoprecipitation showed a selective disruption of beta-catenin/lef-1 interaction. In vivo studies exhibited tumor inhibition of 69% with CGP049090 and 57% with PKF115-584 when compared with vehicle-treated controls, and the intervention was well tolerated. CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated that targeting lef-1 is a new and selective therapeutic approach in CLL. CGP049090 or PKF115-584 may be attractive compounds  for CLL and other malignancies that deserve further (pre)clinical evaluation."
171	"Rituximab is a class I chimeric anti-CD20 antibody that has shown efficacy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), both as a single agent and in combination with traditional chemotherapies. The modest activity demonstrated in early studies evaluating rituximab in relapsed CLL was improved with higher doses or more dose-intensive regimens that overcame the unfavorable pharmacokinetic features commonly found in CLL. These studies led to a variety of combination trials of rituximab with chemotherapy, where both phase II and later phase III studies have shown great promise for the advancement of CLL therapy. Despite the  therapeutic success of rituximab in CLL, studies demonstrating the definitive relative mechanism of tumor clearance are still lacking and this requires further investigation. In addition to being used as a therapy for CLL, rituximab is an effective treatment for autoimmune CLL complications such as hemolytic anemia and immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). Patients with CLL may experience early infusion-related side effects that can be diminished with corticosteroid pretreatment and stepped-up dosing. Risk factors for infusion-related toxicity may relate to atypical CLL expressing bright CD20 antigen expression, although several different studies have not clearly implicated elevated white blood cell count as a risk factor. Other adverse events, including delayed cytopenias, reactivation of hepatitis B, and development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, are rare. Future efforts focusing on novel combination-based strategies will be required to fully appreciate the benefit of this therapy in CLL."
173	"Apart from its well known role as an etiological agent for non-A and non-B viral  hepatitis, there is growing evidence that hepatitis C virus is associated to B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The association between HCV and lymphoproliferative  disorders has been recently postulated based on epidemiological data, biological  studies and clinical observations. Although various subtypes of lymphomas appear  to be associated to HCV, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia and marginal zone lymphoma appeared to be particularly represented among HCV-positive patients. The causative role of HCV in those disorders has been further supported by the response to antiviral therapy. Despite a better understanding of pathophysiological processes at stake  leading from HCV infection to overt lymphoma, many issues still need to be further elucidated. Although HCV has been demonstrated to directly infect peripheral blood mononuclear cells both in vitro and, in some cases, in vivo, a strong body of evidence rather supports the hypothesis of an indirect transformation mechanism by which sustained antigenic stimulation leads from oligoclonal to monoclonal expansion and sometimes to lymphoma, probably through secondary oncogenic events. Here, we review epidemiological and biological studies, as well as clinical data on antiviral therapy, linking HCV-infection to  B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma."
174	"Fifty-one parent-offspring pairs with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or other lymphoproliferative disorders (nonCLL) such as malignant lymphoma, multiple myeloma, or other types of lymphocytic leukemia than CLL were ascertained independently in 38 families. There were 30 CLL-CLL parent-offspring pairs and 21 pairs with nonCLL in parents and/or in offspring. The median age of onset of disease was 13 years lower in the offspring than in the parents when comparing all 51 pairs (P < 0.001). This difference was mainly caused by a significantly lower age at onset in offspring with parental nonCLL (P < 0.001) where paternal disease was transferred especially to sons, while affected offspring to parents with CLL have the same age at debut of disease than their parents (P = 0.130) and a nearly equal transfer to sons and daughters. The low-malignant follicular small B-cell lymphoma was the predominant diagnosis within nonCLL. Anticipation is pointed out as one likely mechanism behind the lower age at onset of disease in offspring than in parents, even if a part of this difference is ascribed to a generally earlier diagnosis with modern technology in offspring than in parents."
176	"There is a long standing issue concerning the strength of evidence relating benzene to lymphocytic neoplasms. Because benzene is a known cause of human acute myelogenous leukemia there has been little reason for organizations such as the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) or the US National Toxicology  Program (NTP) to perform standard hazard identification reviews of benzene as a possible cause of other cancers such as lymphomas. Increased understanding of underlying mechanisms of carcinogenesis, as is reflected in the greater scope given to mechanistic evidence in assigning overall sufficiency of evidence for carcinogenicity by both IARC and NTP, suggests that the evidence supporting benzene as a cause of lymphoma likely has passed the threshold required for being listed as a known causal relationship. A broad range of genotoxic effects in the  lymphocytes of benzene-exposed workers has been well documented, as has the role  of chromosomal effects in carcinogenesis. There is also increasing evidence of a  close relationship between lymphoid tumors and the types of myeloid tumors known  to be caused by benzene. This includes the not infrequent finding of biphenotypic lineage as well as the formation of lymphoid as well as myeloid leukemias following chemotherapy. Studies of the mechanism of benzene toxicity are consistent with a relatively non-specific mechanism capable of producing multiple chromosomal changes, and there is evidence that the early hematopoietic stem cell, which is believed to be targeted by benzene in causing myeloid cancers, is  also the progenitor of lymphocytic cell types. Furthermore, the classification of lymphomas has evolved so that non-Hodgkin lymphoma now includes such formerly distinct disorders as chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma, and there is less of a distinction between leukemia and non-leukemia forms of lymphoma."
177	"PURPOSE: To characterize the role of the oncogene DEK in modulating the response  to either Nutlin-3, a small-molecule inhibitor of the MDM2/p53 interaction, or chlorambucil in primary B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: DEK mRNA and protein levels were evaluated in primary B-CLL  samples (n = 21), p53(wild-type) SKW6.4, p53(mutated) BJAB lymphoblastoid cell lines, and normal CD19(+) B lymphocytes-treated Nutlin-3 or chlorambucil (10 micromol/L, each). Knocking down experiments with either p53 or DEK small interfering RNA (siRNA) were done to investigate the potential role of p53 in controlling the expression of DEK and the role of DEK in leukemic cell survival/apoptosis. RESULTS: Both Nutlin-3 and chlorambucil downregulated DEK in primary B-CLL samples (n = 21) and SKW6.4 but not in BJAB cells. Knocking down p53 attenuated the effect of Nutlin-3 on DEK expression, whereas knocking down DEK significantly increased both spontaneous and Nutlin-3-induced apoptosis. Conversely, counteracting DEK downmodulation by using p53 small interfering RNA reduced Nutlin-3-mediated apoptosis. On the other hand, Nutlin-3 potently induced p53 accumulation, but it did not affect DEK levels in normal CD19(+) B lymphocytes. CONCLUSIONS: These data show that the downregulation of DEK in response to either Nutlin-3 or chlorambucil represents an important molecular determinant in the cytotoxic response of leukemic cells, and suggest that strategies aimed to downregulate DEK might improve the therapeutic potential of these drugs."
178	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a common hematologic malignancy associated  with an increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer. Basal cell carcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas in these patients may have an associated dense peritumoral leukemic infiltrate. This infiltrate can lead to the diagnosis of CLL and may also obscure tumor margins and pose a challenge in the assessment of perineural tumor spread. Immunohistochemical stains are useful in distinguishing  leukemic B-cell infiltrates from tumor-reactive T-cell infiltrates. Leukemic cells of CLL are CD20+/CD23+/CD5+/CD43+/CD3-, whereas benign reactive infiltrates are composed of CD20-/CD23-/CD5+/CD43+/CD3+ T-cells. Given the paucity of symptoms in early stages of CLL, a dense lymphoid infiltrate surrounding a cutaneous neoplasm may serve as the first indication of CLL. We report a series of three cases of SCC with a coexisting infiltrate of CLL, including one with perineural involvement, one involving metastatic SCC, and one in which this histologic finding spurred the initial diagnosis of CLL."
179	"8-Chloroadenosine (8-Cl-Ado) is a ribosyl nucleoside analog currently in phase I  testing for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). 8-Cl-Ado activity is dependent on adenosine kinase and requires intracellular accumulation of 8-Cl-Ado as mono-, di-, and tri-phosphates. In the current study with four mantle cell lymphoma cell lines, we report a new major metabolic pathway for 8-Cl-Ado intracellular metabolism, the formation of succinyl-8-chloro-adenosine (S-8-Cl-Ado) and its monophosphate (S-8-Cl-AMP). 8-Cl-AMP levels were highly associated with S-8-Cl-AMP levels and reached a steady-state prior to the secondary metabolites, 8-Cl-ATP and S-8-Cl-Ado. Consistent with fumarate as a required substrate for formation of succinyl-8-Cl-adenylate metabolites, the S-8-Cl-adenylate concentrations in multiple cell lines were associated with fumarate loss. The distribution of metabolites was also altered using the energy  metabolism modifiers, metformin and oligomycin. The rates of succinyl-8-Cl-adenylate metabolism were enhanced by increasing the intracellular  fumarate concentrations after metformin co-treatment. In addition, the S-8-Cl-AMP concentrations were increased after acute inhibition of ATP synthase by oligomycin. We conclude that 8-Cl-Ado metabolism not only affects intracellular purine metabolism; 8-Cl-Ado conversion to succinyl analogs ties its metabolism to the citric acid cycle by reduction of the fumarate pool."
180	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a lymphoproliferative disorder that originates from antigen-experienced B lymphocytes that do not die and hence accumulate due to external survival signals or undergo apoptosis and are replenished by proliferating precursors. These neoplastic lymphocytes exhibit a characteristic immunophenotype of CD5(+)/CD19(+)/CD20(+)/HLA-DR+/CD23(+)/sIgdim.  Thus, the CD20 antigen has been an appealing target for therapy. The introduction of the monoclonal antibody rituximab (anti-CD20) enabled an outstanding advance in CLL treatment. The introduction of this monoclonal antibody into chemotherapy  regimens has dramatically improved complete response rates and progression-free survival in patients with both untreated and relapsed CLL. Although only preliminary data from phase III confirmatory trials have been reported, the FCR regimen, which combines fludarabine and cyclophosphamide with rituximab, is currently the most effective treatment regimen for CLL patients, and has also been demonstrated to significantly improve overall survival. The success of rituximab and the identification of other CLL lymphocyte surface antigens have spurred the development of a multitude of monoclonal antibodies targeting distinct proteins and epitopes in an attempt to target CLL cells more effectively."
181	"BACKGROUND: ZAP-70 is an independent negative prognostic marker in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Usually, its expression is investigated by flow cytometric protocols in which the percentage of ZAP-70 positive CLL cells is determined in respect to isotypic control (ISO-method) or residual ZAP-70 positive T cells (T-method). These methods, however, beside suffering of an inherent subjectivity in their application, may give discordant results in some cases. The aim of this study was to assess the prognostic significance of these methods in comparison with another in which ZAP-70 expression was evaluated as a  Mean-Fluorescence-Intensity Ratio between gated T and CLL cells (T/B Ratio-method). METHODS: Cytometric files relative to ZAP-70 determination according to the three readouts were retrospectively reviewed on a cohort of 173 patients (test set), all with complete clinical and biological prognostic assessment and time-to-treatment (TTT) available. Findings were then validated in an independent cohort of 341 cases from a different institution (validation set). RESULTS: The optimal prognostic cut-offs for ZAP-70 expression were selected at 11% (ISO-method) or 20% of positive cells (T-method), as well as at 3.0 (T/B Ratio-method) in the test set; these cut-offs yielded 66, 60 and 73 ZAP-70+ cases, respectively. Univariate analyses resulted in a better separation of ZAP-70+ vs. ZAP-70- CLL patients utilizing the T/B Ratio, compared to T- or ISO-methods. In multivariate analyses which included the major clinical and biological prognostic markers for CLL, the prognostic impact of ZAP-70 appeared stronger when the T/B-Ratio method was applied. These findings were confirmed in  the validation set, in which ZAP-70 expression, evaluated by the T- (cut-off = 20%) or T/B Ratio- (cut-off = 3.0) methods, yielded 180 or 127 ZAP-70+ cases, respectively. ZAP-70+ patients according to the T/B Ratio-method had shorter TTT, both if compared to ZAP-70- CLL, and to cases classified ZAP-70+ by the T-method  only. CONCLUSIONS: We suggest to evaluate ZAP-70 expression in routine settings using the T/B Ratio-method, given the operator and laboratory independent feature of this approach. We propose the 3.0 T/B Ratio value as optimal cut-off to discriminate ZAP-70+ (T/B Ratio less than 3.0) from ZAP-70- (T/B Ratio more/equal than 3.0) cases."
182	"Microvesicles (MVs) released by malignant cancer cells constitute an important part of the tumor microenvironment. They can transfer various messages to target  cells and may be critical to disease progression. Here, we demonstrate that MVs circulating in plasma of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients exhibit a phenotypic shift from predominantly platelet derived in early stage to  leukemic B-cell derived at advanced stage. Furthermore, the total MV level in CLL was significantly greater compared with healthy subjects. To understand the functional implication, we examined whether MVs can interact and modulate CLL bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) known to provide a "homing and nurturing" environment for CLL B cells. We found that CLL-MV can activate the AKT/mammalian  target of rapamycin/p70S6K/hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha axis in CLL-BMSCs with production of vascular endothelial growth factor, a survival factor for CLL B cells. Moreover, MV-mediated AKT activation led to modulation of the beta-catenin pathway and increased expression of cyclin D1 and c-myc in BMSCs. We found MV delivered phospho-receptor tyrosine kinase Axl directly to the BMSCs in association with AKT activation. This study demonstrates the existence of separate MV phenotypes during leukemic disease progression and underscores the important role of MVs in activation of the tumor microenvironment."
184	"Sonoporation holds many promises in developing an efficient, reproducible and permanent gene delivery vector. In this study, we evaluated sonoporation as a method to transfect nucleic acids in suspension cells, including the human follicular lymphoma cell line RL and fresh human Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) cells. RL and CLL cells were exposed to continuous ultrasound waves (445 kHz) in the presence of either plasmid DNA coding for green fluorescent protein (GFP) or fluorescent siRNA directed against BCL2L1. Transfection efficiency and cell viability were assessed using fluorescent microscopy and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. Knock-down of target protein by siRNA was assessed by immunoblotting. Moreover, sonoporation was used to stably transfect RL cells with a plasmid coding for luciferase (pGL3). These cells were then used for the non-invasive monitoring of tumorigenesis in immunodeficient SCID mice. Sonoporation allows a highly efficient transfection of nucleic acid in suspension cells with a low rate of mortality, both in a tumor cell line and in fresh human  leukemic cells. It also allowed efficient transfection of BCL2L1 siRNA with efficient reduction of the target protein level. In conclusion, ultrasound cavitation represents an efficient method for the transfection of cells in suspension, including fresh human leukemic cells."
185	"Leukemias are neoplasms of hematolymphoid cells that predominantly involve the peripheral blood. Cutaneous involvement (leukemia cutis) occurs in chronic myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and in monocytic leukemia. Here,  we report a case of a 49-year-old female patient known to have chronic myeloid leukemia presented with multiple cutaneous lesions. The clinicopathologic features were presented and the relevant literature was discussed."
186	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) is common in the Western world. Genetic abnormalities detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene region (IGHV) mutational status are well-known independent prognostic indicators in CLL/SLL. Given the requirement for specialized testing to detect such aberrations, we investigated whether morphologic features may predict the presence of a more or less favorable genetic profile. Forty-one SLL cases were morphologically evaluated for expanded proliferation centers, increased large cells outside of proliferation centers, and nuclear contour irregularities (NCI) in small and large tumor cells. ZAP-70 immunohistochemistry and FISH (deletions of 13q14, p53  and ATM and trisomy 12) were successful in all cases. IGHV mutational status was  determined in 26/41 cases. Significant NCI in both small and large cells correlated with the presence of an unfavorable FISH abnormality (ie, ATM or p53 deletions). However, despite good specificity (94%), the sensitivity (57%) of this finding is inadequate for routine use. No other significant associations with morphologic features were identified. Strong ZAP-70 positivity correlated with unmutated IGHV (P=0.001), rendering ZAP-70 IHC a useful surrogate for IGHV mutational status. ZAP-70 positivity predicted against finding a favorable FISH deletion 13q14 (P=0.023). Although we only studied 41 cases, we corroborated their validity using Kaplan-Meier overall survival analysis. In conclusion, morphologic features in SLL are not a reliable predictor of underlying genetic status. Thus, we propose a practical, cost-effective approach to the work-up of these cases, which should be driven by clinical necessity."
188	"Interphase cytogenetics are commonly used to identify clonal abnormalities in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients but fail to identify recurrent translocations that ultimately can direct more focused molecular characterization. Given the importance of del(17p13.1) in CLL outcome, we performed an extensive review of 1213 patients undergoing metaphase cytogenetics  at our institution and identified 16 (1.3%) with a recurrent unbalanced translocation between the p arms of chromosomes 17 and 18 that results in a dicentric chromosome with loss of much of 17p and 18p. The dic(17;18)(p11.2;p11.2) was associated with a complex (three or more unrelated cytogenetic abnormalities) karyotype in 12 patients (75%) at the time that the abnormality was first identified, and eventually associated with a complex karyotype in 94% of patients. IGHV mutational analysis was un-mutated in 88% of cases where evaluation was possible. Except for one patient who was diagnosed with CLL incidentally during a workup for metastatic tonsillar cancer, all patients identified with dic(17;18)(p11.2;p11.2) met criteria for disease treatment, with a median time from diagnosis to first treatment of 15 months. Our data demonstrate that dic(17;18)(p11.2;p11.2) is a novel recurrent cytogenetic abnormality in CLL associated with early age at diagnosis and accelerated disease progression. Future efforts to identify genes disrupted by this translocation are warranted and ongoing."
189	"Natural killer (NK) cells hold promise for cancer therapy. NK cytotoxicity can be enhanced by expression of chimeric antigen receptors that re-direct specificity toward target cells by engaging cell surface molecules expressed on target cells. We developed a regulatory-compliant, scalable non-viral approach to engineer NK cells to be target-specific based on transfection of mRNA encoding chimeric receptors. Transfection of eGFP mRNA into ex vivo expanded NK cells (N=5) or purified unstimulated NK cells from peripheral blood (N=4) resulted in good cell  viability with eGFP expression in 85+/-6% and 86+/-4%, 24 h after transfection, respectively. An mRNA encoding a receptor directed against CD19 (anti-CD19-BB-z)  was also transfected into NK cells efficiently. Ex vivo expanded and purified unstimulated NK cells expressing anti-CD19-BB-z exhibited enhanced cytotoxicity against CD19(+) target cells resulting in > or =80% lysis of acute lymphoblastic  leukemia and B-lineage chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells at effector target ratios lower than 10:1. The target-specific cytotoxicity for anti-CD19-BB-z mRNA-transfected NK cells was observed as early as 3 h after transfection and persisted for up to 3 days. The method described here should facilitate the clinical development of NK-based antigen-targeted immunotherapy for cancer."
190	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocitic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) is low-grade malignant lymphoprolipheration, that has tendency to convert to a higher-grade neoplasm over time. More common is the development of a diffuse large cell lymphoma or transformation into prolymphocytic cell population. In rare cases, 0.1-0.5% of patients develop multiple myeloma or Hodgkin's disease. We present 65-year-old female with Hodgkin's variant of Richter's syndrome. On the basis of  clinical simptoms, cytological, hystological and immunohistological finding in April 2008 CLL/SLL were diagnosed. The patient was treated with 8 courses of R-CHOP. After 10 months, FNA of the one of the enlarged lymph node on the neck was performed. The diagnosis was Hodgkin's disease. Immuno-hystological studies of the lymph node was consistent with type I Hodgkin's type of Richter's syndrome. Patient was treated with 3 courses of ABVD and radiotherapy."
191	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by highly variable distribution of tumor mass between peripheral blood, bone marrow and lymphoid organs which is important for staging, classification and prognosis. These clinical findings with novel data about importance of B-cell receptor and its stimulation with the support of microenvironment indicate important role of tissues (lymphoid organs and bone marrow) in the pathogenesis of B-CLL. Here is presented the novel approach of simultaneous characterization of B-CLL cells form peripheral blood, bone marrow and lymph nodes by flow cytometry and immunocytochemistry, defining inter- and intraclonal diversity with respect to various molecules. These include adhesion molecules (integrins, immunoglobulins,  selectins), chemokine receptors (including CXCR-4), signaling molecules and prognostic factors (CD38 and ZAP-70), proliferation and apoptosis markers (including Ki67, AgNORs with PK index, survivin, bcl-2) and therapeutic targets (CD20 and CD52) and residual hematopoietic stem cells. A number of interesting significant interactions have been discovered, pointing to the important role of  neoplastic cell microenvironment. These may in addition to insights in pathogenesis and roles of different microenvironments add to diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of B-CLL patients."
192	"For patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), expression of ZAP-70 in the leukemic cells is an indicator of poor prognosis. However, the mechanism that accounts for this effect is not known. ZAP-70 expression has previously been associated with increased B cell antigen receptor signaling upon surface immunoglobulin ligation in vitro as shown by ZAP-70 and Syk phosphorylation. This finding has led to the suggestion that a more aggressive clinical course is correlated with B cell antigen receptor signaling. Using high resolution immunophenotyping to analyze CLL cells ex vivo (without stimulation in vitro), we have demonstrated CLL cells from all patients express some ZAP-70 and that increased expression of ZAP-70 is correlated with decreased levels of phosphorylated ZAP-70 and phosphorylated Syk measured directly ex vivo. Conversely, high levels of phosphorylated ZAP-70 and phosphorylated Syk are found only in samples with low levels of ZAP-70 expression, and Syk and ZAP-70 phosphorylation appear to be mostly independent of each other. Additionally, Syk  phosphorylation is directly correlated with levels of p21(cip1), a cell cycle inhibitor and a p53 target. Together these findings suggest that lower levels of  p21(cip1) and/or a defect in p53 activity may account in part for the more aggressive disease course in patients with high levels of ZAP-70 rather than enhanced B cell antigen receptor signaling as has been previously hypothesized."
193	"BACKGROUND: An association exists between chronic lymphocytic leukemia and malignant melanoma. OBJECTIVES: To study the clinical behavior of malignant melanoma in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and malignant melanoma. RESULTS: Sixty-nine patients had malignant melanoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The recurrence-free and metastasis-free survival rates at 2, 5, and 10  years were 93.4% and 89.1%, 83.8% and 93.4%, and 87.4% and 82.1%, respectively. No significant difference was observed in age- and sex-adjusted mortality rates between patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia diagnosed before malignant melanoma and those with chronic lymphocytic leukemia diagnosed after malignant melanoma. LIMITATIONS: Retrospective study and small patient population. CONCLUSION: Patients with malignant melanoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia were not shown to have worse survival rates than those with stage IA, IB, and IIA disease. Further research and prospective study are needed."
194	"OBJECTIVE: Despite a fludarabine-based treatment is the first choice of therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), not all patients achieve a partial or complete response and some of them develop autoimmune manifestations. The aim of  this study was to evaluate the influence of CD154 on these adverse effects because CD154 is involved in both B-cell survival and autoimmunity. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 36 patients with CLL were cultured in vitro with fludarabine or 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine for 24, 48, and 72 hours. RESULTS: Seven patients (19.4%) presented CD154 expression in PBMC cultured with  purine analogues in vitro for 24 and/or 48 hours, while no expression was found when cultured in media alone. These seven patients showed a decreased apoptotic rate in vitro after purine analogues compared with those patients who did not express CD154 (p = 0.01 for fludarabine; p < 0.001 for 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine). CD154 expression was found to have prognostic value for response to fludarabine in vivo and was associated with the development of autoimmune manifestations (odds ratio = 25; 95% confidence interval = 3.5-166.7; p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: Our preliminary results suggest that CD154 expression in CLL patients, which may be induced by purine analogues, is associated with resistance to fludarabine and with development of autoimmune manifestations."
195	"IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: Since relapse of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and refractoriness to treatment following relapse, is inevitable after initial treatment, development of novel treatment strategies is necessary. AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: CD20 as a therapeutic target for CLL, successes and limitations of current anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapy, and implications of preclinical and clinical developments of novel alternatives, including ofatumumab, that may enhance anti-CD20 mAb therapy are reviewed. The literature reviewed encompasses papers and congress abstracts from the past 13 years. WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: While rituximab combined with chemotherapy has considerably improved outcomes for some but not all CLL patients, single-agent use is limited in relapsed/refractory CLL. Novel anti-CD20 mAbs in development, such as ofatumumab, may bypass some limitations by virtue of alternative epitope  binding and modified effector functions. Ofatumumab induces significant complement-dependent cell lysis in vitro, particularly in cells with low CD20 expression. The FDA recently approved ofatumumab for treatment of CLL refractory  to fludarabine and alemtuzumab. TAKE HOME MESSAGE: CD20-targetting chemoimmunotherapeutic options have advanced treatment of CLL. Results for single-agent ofatumumab and other new CD20 mAbs, in different lines of therapy and in combination with chemotherapy, will guide optimal use of these alternative therapies for B-cell malignancies."
196	"IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: NF-kappaB includes a family of transcription factors that play a critical role in the biology of normal lymphocytes and it is aberrantly activated in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Here, we review the role of constitutive NF-kappaB activation in CLL pathogenesis and its potential as a therapeutic target for CLL treatment. AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: This review highlights the different strategies reported to inhibit NF-kappaB signaling in CLL cells. They include both IkappaB kinase inhibitors and several natural compounds that act at different steps of the pathway. WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: Targeting NF-kappaB leads to apoptosis of CLL cells, corroborating the role of NF-kappaB in the survival and clonal expansion of these tumoral cells. Moreover, several studies confirmed a synergistic effect between NF-kappaB inhibitors and other antitumoral agents and that inhibition of NF-kappaB could overcome the microenvironmental protection of CLL cells. TAKE HOME MESSAGE: NF-kappaB is a relevant target in CLL and inhibitors of this prosurvival pathway, alone or in combination, represent a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of CLL patients."
197	"Studies of the role of individual genes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have been hampered by the inability to consistently transfect primary tumor cells. Here, we describe a highly efficient method of genetically modifying primary CLL cells using a VSVG pseudotyped lentiviral vector. We transduced CD38  negative CLL cells with a lentiviral vector encoding CD38 which caused increased  surface CD38 expression in all the samples tested (n=17) with no evidence of plasmacytoid differentiation. The mean percentage of positive cells expressing CD38 was 87%+/-8.5% and the mean cell viability 74%+/-17%. This high level of transduction of all the CLL cell samples tested demonstrates the utility of this  technique which should prove applicable for the introduction and analysis of other genes in these non-dividing cells."
198	"BACKGROUND: A prognostic index based on widely available clinical and laboratory  features was recently proposed to predict survival in patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We assessed the utility of this index for predicting time to first treatment in early chronic lymphocytic leukemia. DESIGN AND METHODS: An observational database of the GIMEMA (Gruppo Italiano Malattie EMatologiche dell'Adulto), which included 310 patients with newly diagnosed Binet stage A chronic lymphocytic leukemia who were observed at different primary hematology centers during the period 1991 - 2000, was used for  the purpose of this study. RESULTS: The new prognostic index enabled Binet stage A patients to be divided into two subgroups that differed with respect to time to first treatment (P=0.003). The original prognostic index was derived from a database that included cases observed at a reference academic center; these patients were younger (P<0.0001) and had more advanced disease (P<0.0001) than those in the current investigation, which studied community-based patients whose data were recorded at presentation. With this in mind, we used an optimal cut-off search to determine how best to split patients with Binet stage A disease into different prognostic groups. According to the recursive partitioning (RPART) model, a classification tree was built that identified three subsets of patients who scores were 0-2 (low risk), 3-4 (intermediate risk) and 5-7 (high risk). The probability of remaining free from therapy at 5 years was 100% in the low risk group, 81.2% in the intermediate risk group and 61.3% in the high risk group (P<0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study confirm the utility of a new prognostic index for predicting time to first treatment in a large sample series of community-based patients with early stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia at presentation. Our effort to develop a revised scoring method meets the need to separate Binet stage A patients into different prognostic groups in order to devise individualized and tailored follow-up during the treatment-free period."
199	"Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation plays a crucial role in the homeostasis of human B cells. We investigated the expression of TLRs 1-9 on the cells of B-cell  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and analyzed the functional consequences of  TLR stimulation on leukemic cells. We showed that B-CLL cells express similar set of TLRs as memory B cells of healthy donors, i.e. TLR-1, TLR-2, TLR-6, TLR-7 and  TLR-9. However, in contrast to memory B cells, B-CLL cells lack TLR-4 expression. Expression of TLRs correlates with their capacity to respond to specific TLR agonists. At the level of phenotype, ODN2006 (TLR-9 agonist) is the most potent stimulus. B-CLL cells also respond to the stimulation with loxoribine, Pam3CSK4 and MALP-2 (TLR-7, TLR1/TLR2 and TLR2/TLR6 agonists, respectively). TLR-7 and TLR-9 stimulation induces production of IL-6 and TNFalpha. In 47% of tested patients, treatment with ODN2006, MALP-2 and Pam3CSK4 reduced leukemic cells survival. Stimulation of B-CLL cells with TLR-9 agonists, loxoribine, MALP-2 and  Pam3CSK4 induces significant proliferation. We report that TLR stimulation induces expression of CD38, a negative prognostic marker, on B-CLL cells. Expression of CD38 is induced by direct stimulation of B-CLL cells through TLR-7  and TLR-9 or CD38 can be induced on B-CLL cells indirectly by a soluble factor induced in non-B-CLL cells after stimulation with TLR-2, TLR-3 or TLR-5 agonists; the nature of this factor remains unknown. Our results argue for cautious evaluation of immunointervention strategies based on the administration of TLR agonists in the treatment of B-CLL as their effects on B-CLL cells may be tumor promoting as well as tumor suppressing."
200	"PURPOSE: To assess whether the poor prognosis of ZAP70-positive B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is associated with the overexpression of ABC transporter genes that are responsible for pleiotropic drug resistance. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The transcript level of ten drug transporters was analyzed using semiquantitative and quantitative RT-PCR in control hematopoietic cells, in 41 CLL patient samples and in 5 lymphoma cell lines. ZAP70 status was determined  by immunoblotting. RESULTS: Of all analyzed transporters, MDR1, MDR2, MRP1, MRP4, MRP5, and MRP7 were expressed at a significantly higher level in B lymphocytes when compared with other hematopoietic cells in peripheral blood. A subgroup of 41 CLL patient  samples showed similar or higher expression of these genes than control B cells,  and CLL cells exhibited high expression when compared with multiple lymphoma cell lines. No significant correlation between ZAP70 expression and ABC transporter expression was observed. CONCLUSION: The ZAP70 status is independent of the multidrug resistance phenotype in CLL."
202	"Mechanisms behind carcinogenesis and resistance of tumor cells to treatment regimes remain elusive. The major stress proteins Hsp72, Hsp90, and Hsp27 are credible candidates to provide this resistance, as their overexpression in many cancer types is well documented. In addition to being present inside tumor cells, where they confer resistance to apoptosis, Hsp72, in particular, is presented externally, embedded in the cell membrane of cancer cells. This study aimed to investigate the localization of Hsp72, Hsp90, and Hsp27 in leukocytes from patients with CLL and age-matched control subjects. CLL patients were found to express significantly higher levels of iHsp90 (CLL=2463 MFI; control=748 MFI) and iHsp27 (CLL=2190 MFI; control=1031 MFI) in lymphocytes than that expressed by lymphocytes from control subjects. Furthermore, expression of iHsp90 was shown to be related to stage of disease, and expression of iHsp27 correlated with levels of active caspase-3. Patients were found to express very high levels or very low  levels of sHsp72 and iHsp72 in CD5(+)/CD19(+) cells, although surface and intracellular datasets did not correlate. Levels of extracellular Hsp72 circulating in the serum were found to correlate with internal levels of Hsp72 and were also found to be significantly lower in patients receiving corticosteroid treatment than in patients not receiving corticosteroid treatment. Finally, analysis of the number of circulating Tregs revealed significantly elevated numbers in CLL patients compared with control subjects."
203	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia affecting adults in the western world. The clinical course of CLL is highly variable: cases that express mutated immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions (IgV(H)) typically have a more indolent clinical course compared with those with unmutated IgV(H). The use of the V(H)3-21 variable region has also been found to confer a poor prognosis, independent of mutation status. Here we describe an assay for the identification of the expressed V(H) segment and its mutation status in CLL. This test uses whole blood-derived RNA and PCR primers annealing to the leader regions and the joining region segments. This approach allows more accurate determination of the IgV(H) mutation status relative to using framework region specific V(H) primers. An additional primer specific for the leader region of the V(H)3-21 segment is described and is shown to be necessary to identify this diagnostically important variable region. We successfully analyzed 99 of 103 samples, including  five expressing the V(H)3-21 variable region. Approximately 5% of cases had complement determining region 3 sequences similar to previously reported cases, and overrepresentation of the V(H)1-69 segment was observed among unmutated cases. These results confirm the proper functioning and high success rate of this valuable prognostic for CLL designed for the use in a clinical laboratory setting."
204	"Cytogenetic abnormalities play a major role in the prognosis of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Several methods have emerged to try to best identify these abnormalities. We used fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to determine the frequency of cytogenetic changes in our CLL patient population.  We also evaluated the effectiveness of multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) in detecting these abnormalities. Sixty-two B-CLL patients and 20 healthy controls were enrolled, and FISH and MLPA analyses were performed  on peripheral blood samples. Using FISH, genomic aberrations were found in 73% of patients and presented as follows: single 13q14.3 deletion (60%), trisomy 12 (7%), ATM deletion (6%), 17p13.1 deletion (2%). MLPA analyses done on 61/62 patients showed sensitivity and specificity values of 90% and 100% respectively.  MLPA revealed several additional copy number changes, the most common being 19p13 (LDLR and CDKN2D). Moreover, the cost for MLPA analysis, including technical time and reagents, is 86% less than FISH. In conclusion, cytogenetic abnormalities are a common finding in CLL patients, and MLPA is a reliable approach that is more cost effective and faster than FISH. Despite MLPA limitations of sensitivity, it  can be used as a first-line screen and complementary test to FISH analysis."
207	"BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have up to a 3-fold  risk of site-specific secondary cancers. The only exception is a lower incidence  of cervical cancer in this population. CASE: A 70-year-old, white woman with stage IV CLL was diagnosed 2 years prior to presentation with stage Ia1 squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. Following an abnormal Pap smear, a colposcopy and biopsies were performed. Initial pathologic  impression of the cervical biopsies was high grade dysplasia. The final review was consistent with CLL without cervical dysplasia. CONCLUSION: Cervical cancer in patients with CLL is a rare occurrence. The pathologic changes on cervical epithelium caused by CLL can mimic dysplastic cellular changes. Expert pathologic review of cervical biopsies is warranted to distinguish between the diagnoses, thus altering management."
208	"Polymorphisms in chemokine genes have been associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) but are understudied in non-HIV-related NHL. Associations of NHL and NHL subtypes with polymorphisms and  haplotypes in CCR5, CCR2, CCL5, CXCL12, and CX(3)CR(1) were explored in a pooled  analysis of three case-control studies (San Francisco Bay Area, California; United Kingdom; total: cases N = 1610, controls N = 1992). Adjusted unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate relative risks among HIV-negative non-Hispanic Caucasians. The CCR5 Delta32 deletion reduced the risk of NHL (odds  ratio = 0.56, 95% confidence interval = 0.38-0.83) in men but not women with similar effects observed for diffuse large-cell and follicular lymphoma (FL). NHL risk also was reduced in men with the CCR2/CCR5 haplotype characterized by the CCR5 Delta32 deletion. The CCL5 -403A allele conferred reduced risks of FL and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Results should be interpreted conservatively. Continued investigation is warranted to confirm these findings."
209	"Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) expression has been shown to correlate with IGHV mutational status and to predict outcome in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We here investigated the prognostic impact of LPL expression in relation to other prognostic markers including IGHV3-21 usage in 140 CLL patients. Additionally, we studied the catalytic activity of LPL in CLL cells. A significant difference in LPL mRNA expression was detected in IGHV unmutated compared to mutated CLL patients (p<0.001). However, the poor-prognostic mutated/stereotyped IGHV3-21 patients did not differ from other mutated CLL cases. Clinical outcome was significantly different in CLL cases with high versus low LPL expression (p<0.001), and LPL expression exceeded mutation status/IGHV3-21 usage as an independent prognostic marker. Finally, LPL protein expression correlated significantly with mRNA expression and was higher in IGHV unmutated versus mutated CLL (p=0.018), although the majority of synthesized protein was catalytically inactive indicating a non-catalytical function in CLL."
211	"Emerging evidence suggests that angiogenic signalling pathways play important role in the patho-biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Our goal was to  investigate: (i) the spontaneous and hypoxia-induced production of pro-angiogenic factors, VEGF and Ang2, by Real-time PCR and ELISA, (ii) the degree of vascularization in CLL-infiltrated bone marrow (BM) compartment by CD34 immunohistochemical staining of microvessels and (iii) the direct angiogenic effect of CLL-derived VEGF and Ang2 by function-blocking experiments in Matrigel  assays. The results demonstrated that CLL cells spontaneously express both VEGF and Ang2 and are able to secrete these factors in surrounding microenvironment. Full-length Ang2 mRNA and truncated form Ang2(443) were detectable. Moreover, CLL cells were shown to enhance secretion of both VEGF and Ang2 proteins when subjected to hypoxic condition. Furthermore, increased in vivo and in vitro angiogenesis was induced by CLL cells. Enhanced BM vascularity correlated with Ig-unmutated CLL subset and increased expression of Ang2. Then, we demonstrated that supernatants obtained from CLL cells significantly increase the HUVEC tube formation in Matrigel assays and that this enhanced angiogenic capacity is mediated by both CLL-derived VEGF and Ang2. Taken together, these results suggest that several simultaneous mechanisms may be involved in the CLL capacity to induce the disruption of pre-existing vessel structures to give rise to tumor neoangiogenesis. The preliminary studies in solid tumors, showing that the disruption of Ang2 function can inhibit tumor vessel density and growth, are encouraging and suggest the possibility of new future therapeutic options targeting CLL microenvironment."
213	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and the other low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphomas  are among the most common lymphoid malignancies. Recent studies suggest that more than 4% of the general population over age 40 harbor a population of clonal B cells with the phenotype of either CLL or another B-cell malignancy, a condition  now designated monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL). Although all cases of CLL appear to be preceded by MBL, the majority of individuals with MBL will not develop a hematologic malignancy. The biologic characteristics and clinical implications of MBL appear to differ based on whether it is identified during the diagnostic evaluation of lymphocytosis or incidentally discovered through screening of individuals with normal lymphocyte counts as part of research studies using highly sensitive detection methods. In this paper, we provide a state of the art review on the prevalence, nomenclature, biology, natural history and clinical management of MBL."
214	"Side-population (SP) analysis identifies precursor cells in normal and malignant  tissues. Cells with this phenotype have increased resistance to many cytotoxic agents, and may represent a primary drug-resistant population in malignant diseases. To discover whether drug-resistant malignant SP cells are nonetheless sensitive to immune-mediated killing, we first established the presence of a malignant CD5(+)CD19(+) SP subset in the blood of 18/21 subjects with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). We examined the fate of these cells in six  of these individuals who received autologous human CD40 ligand and interleukin-2  (hCD40L/IL-2) gene-modified tumor cells as part of a tumor vaccine study. Vaccinated patients showed an increase in B-CLL-reactive T cells followed by a corresponding decline in circulating CD5(+)CD19(+) SP cells. T-cell lines and clones generated from vaccinated patients specifically recognized B-CLL SP tumor  cells. Elimination of SP cells is likely triggered by their increased expression  of target antigens, such as receptor for hyaluronan-mediated motility (RHAMM), after stimulation of the malignant cells by hCD40L, as CD8(+) RHAMM-specific T cells could be detected in the peripheral blood of immunized patients and were associated with the decline in B-CLL SP cells. Hence, malignant B cells with a primary drug-resistant phenotype can be targeted by T- cell-mediated effector activity after immunization of human subjects."
215	"Progress in our understanding of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and its treatment has resulted in a more tailored approach to patient management, with different therapeutic regimens for different patient populations. The current standard of care has evolved from single-agent therapy with chlorambucil or cyclophosphamide, through the introduction of purine analogs to the more recent introduction of chemoimmunotherapy. Selection of appropriate initial therapy should be based primarily on patient characteristics such as age, performance status and the expected clinical course of the leukemia based on established risk factors. Achieving a complete and durable response is the major goal for fit patients; chemoimmunotherapy with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab would be advantageous. Alternatively, in unfit patients, controlling symptoms is the essential treatment goal and a regimen with a more favorable toxicity profile should be applied. This manuscript reviews the data that has lead to current treatment choices, advises on tailored therapies and discusses emerging trends. Data for this review was identified by a search of electronic information including Medline and PubMed databases, conference proceedings and trial registers. Critical analysis of extracted data was undertaken with attention to trial phase, treatment schedules and end points, including response rates, follow-up times, progression-free survival and overall survival."
217	"Appearance of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in same person has been reported in the literature. There is a higher-than-expected  incidence of co-occurrence of these neoplastic disorders. The cause for this association remains speculative. Two epidemiological studies have shown that the  observed-to-expected ratio for occurrence of RCC in NHL patients were 1.86 to 2.67. We herein describe five patients with both RCC and lymphoid malignancies, and reviewed possible explanations for the association. In three of the five patients, RCC was diagnosed during lymphoproliferative disease work-up, and remaining two cases had been diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia 1 and 5  years prior to RCC. All RCC cases were detected during staging of the primary tumor, usually by CT scan and/or ultrasound. Our data are in correlation with the literature that there is an increased association of RCC and NHL more often among male patients, and that the lymphoproliferative disease often presents with extranodal involvement. The specialists should be alerted for this possibility when evaluating patients at diagnosis or during follow-up."
218	"The distribution and pathological significance of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 expression are still unclear. In this study, we evaluated sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1's suitability as a diagnostic marker for malignant lymphoma by immunostaining formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections using a well-defined commercial anti-sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 antibody. Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 was strongly expressed on the surface of small lymphocytes forming primary lymphoid follicles and in the mantle zone of secondary lymphoid follicles. Microarray-based immunohistochemistry with tissue samples from 85 lymphoid malignancy cases demonstrated that sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 was expressed on the surface of mantle cell lymphoma cells. Strong expression was observed in all classical mantle cell lymphoma cases involving the lymph node (19 out of 19), gastrointestinal tract (10 out of 10), bone marrow (9 out of 9), and orbita (1 out of 1). Good results were obtained even in sections where cyclin D1 signals were lost because of over-fixation and/or decalcification. One aggressive variant of mantle cell lymphoma displayed a weaker membranous staining than classical mantle cell lymphoma in the lymph node and bone marrow. In a cyclin D1-negative mantle cell lymphoma of the orbita, no conclusive result was obtained. No cases of follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, or Burkitt's lymphoma showed any significant expression, whereas 2 out of 6 chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphomas in bone marrow, 1 out of 3 lymphoplasmacytic lymphomas in the lymph node, and 2 out of 37 diffuse large B-cell lymphomas exhibited staining. A quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction-based analysis of mantle cell lymphoma lines revealed the sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 mRNA expression level to be well correlated with the results of immunocytochemistry, flow cytometry, and western blotting. Thus, sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 immunohistochemistry may be useful in the histological diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma with formalin-fixed  and paraffin-embedded sections. The antigen may be particularly valuable in cases where cyclin D1 immunostaining is not successful."
219	"Human CD38 is a pleiotropic glycoprotein belonging to a family of enzymes/receptors involved in the catabolism of extracellular nucleotides. CD38-receptor activities are regulated through binding to the nonsubstrate ligand CD31. CD38 expression above a critical threshold is a negative prognostic marker  for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Activation of CD38 by means of agonistic monoclonal antibodies or the CD31 ligand induces proliferation and immunoblast differentiation of CLL cells. Here we define the genetic signature that follows long-term in vitro interactions between CD38(+) CLL lymphocytes and  CD31(+) cells. The emerging profile confirms that the CD31/CD38 axis activates genetic programs relevant for proliferative responses. It also indicates a contribution of this pathway to the processes mediating migration and homing. These results further support the notion that the CD31/CD38 axis is part of a network of accessory signals that modify the microenvironment, favoring localization of leukemic cells to growth-permissive sites."
220	"Easily reproducible animal models that allow for study of the biology of chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and to test new therapeutic agents have been very difficult to establish. We have developed a novel transplantable xenograft murine model of CLL by engrafting the CLL cell line MEC1 into Rag2(-/-)gamma(c)(-/-) mice. These mice lack B, T, and natural killer (NK) cells, and, in contrast to nude mice that retain NK cells, appear to be optimal recipient for MEC1 cells, which were successfully transplanted through either subcutaneous or intravenous routes. The result is a novel in vivo model that has systemic involvement, develops very rapidly, allows the measurement of tumor burden, and has 100% engraftment efficiency. This model closely resembles aggressive human CLL and could be very useful for evaluating both the biologic basis of CLL growth and dissemination as well as the efficacy of new therapeutic agents."
221	"Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is the major MMP produced by B-CLL cells and contributes to their tissue infiltration by degrading extracellular and membrane-anchored substrates. Here we describe a different function for MMP-9 in  B-CLL, which involves the hemopexin domain rather than its catalytic function. Binding of soluble or immobilized (pro)MMP-9, a catalytically inactive proMMP-9 mutant, or the MMP-9 hemopexin domain to its docking receptors alpha4beta1 integrin and CD44v, induces an intracellular signaling pathway that prevents B-CLL apoptosis. This pathway is induced in all B-CLL cases, is active in B-CLL lymphoid tissues, and consists of Lyn activation, STAT3 phosphorylation, and Mcl-1 upregulation. Our results establish that MMP/receptor binding induces intracellular survival signals and highlight the role of (pro)MMP-9 in B-CLL pathogenesis."
222	"We have shown previously that cancer/testis (CT) antigen, CT45, is expressed in various epithelial cancers at a frequency of <5% to approximately 35%. In this study, the protein expression of CT45 was examined in non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphomas and classical Hodgkin lymphoma by immunohistochemical analysis. Serological response to CT45 was also evaluated by ELISA using CT45 recombinant protein and sera from patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. None of the 80 low-grade B-cell lymphomas, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma, expressed CT45. In comparison, CT45 was expressed in 28 of 126 (22%) diffuse large B-cell lymphomas  (DLBCL). A remarkably high percentage (42/72, 58%) of classical Hodgkin lymphoma  contained CT45-positive Reed-Sternberg cells. Nodular sclerosis and mixed-cellularity subtypes had similar frequency of CT45 expression, but most EBV-positive cases were CT45 negative. Gray-zone lymphoma (cases with features of both DLBCL and classical Hodgkin lymphoma) also showed frequent (64%) CT45 expression. Evaluation of reactive lymphoid tissues showed scattered CT45-positive lymphocytes in a single case of florid follicular hyperplasia, raising the possibility that this case was an evolving malignancy. Despite frequent CT45 expression, only 1 of 67 Hodgkin lymphoma patients had detectable anti-CT45 antibodies in the serum, suggesting that the immune response to CT45 may be suppressed. In conclusion, classical Hodgkin lymphoma has the highest frequency of CT45 expression among all malignancies tested to date, the frequency of CT45 expression in DLBCL is similar to that seen in epithelial cancers, and low-grade non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphomas do not express CT45."
223	"BACKGROUND: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection has been associated with Richter transformation in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: A direct isothermal mRNA amplification method was developed for detection of EBV latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) mRNA transcriptional activity in the peripheral blood of 135 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients and 98 hematologically healthy control subjects. RESULTS: EBV LMP1 mRNA transcripts were found in 19 of 135 (14%) of the CLL cases, but only 1% of the healthy controls (P < .0001). In contrast, 23 solid tumor patients tested negative for EBV LMP1 transcripts. In a later cohort of patients after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, 4 of 7 patients with Hodgkin lymphoma or Burkitt lymphoma had EBV LMP1 detected. In a preliminary analysis, outcome data were available for 88 of the 135 patients with CLL. EBV LMP1 mRNA positivity was associated with a significantly increased degree of histologically demonstrated bone marrow involvement by CLL (P = .003, Mann-Whitney U test). CONCLUSIONS: EBV LMP1 mRNA transcriptional activity was observed in a significant proportion of CLL patients. Transcription of the EBV LMP1, a late gene with known transforming potential in vitro, suggests that EBV activation plays a role in CLL disease progression. Thus, EBV LMP1 expression in CLL patients may be a factor involved in the genesis of refractory disease."
224	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who relapse after allogeneic transplant may achieve durable remission following donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI), showing the potency of donor-derived immunity in eradicating tumors. We sought to elucidate the antigenic basis of the effective graft-versus-leukemia (GvL) responses associated with DLI for the treatment of CLL by analyzing the specificity of plasma antibody responses developing in two DLI-treated patients who achieved long-term remission without graft-versus-host disease. By probing high-density protein microarrays with patient plasma, we discovered 35 predominantly intracellular antigens that elicited high-titer antibody reactivity greater in post-DLI than in pre-DLI plasma. Three antigens-C6orf130, MDS032, and  ZFYVE19-were identified by both patients. Along with additional candidate antigens DAPK3, SERBP1, and OGFOD1, these proteins showed higher transcript and protein expression in B cells and CLL cells compared with normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells. DAPK3 and the shared antigens do not represent minor histocompatibility antigens, as their sequences are identical in both donor and tumor. Although ZFYVE19, DAPK3, and OGFOD1 elicited minimal antibody reactivity in 12 normal subjects and 12 chemotherapy-treated CLL patients, 5 of 12 CLL patients with clinical GvL responses were serologically reactive to these antigens. Moreover, antibody reactivity against these antigens was temporally correlated with clinical disease regression. These B-cell antigens represent promising biomarkers of effective anti-CLL immunity."
225	"CD19 is a B cell-specific antigen expressed on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells but to date has not been effectively targeted with therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. XmAb5574 is a novel engineered anti-CD19 monoclonal antibody with a modified constant fragment (Fc)-domain designed to enhance binding of FcgammaRIIIa. Herein, we demonstrate that XmAb5574 mediates potent antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), modest direct cytotoxicity, and  antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis but not complement-mediated cytotoxicity against CLL cells. Interestingly, XmAb5574 mediates significantly higher ADCC compared with both the humanized anti-CD19 nonengineered antibody it is derived from and also rituximab, a therapeutic antibody widely used in the treatment of CLL. The XmAb5574-dependent ADCC is mediated by natural killer (NK) cells through a granzyme B-dependent mechanism. The NK cell-mediated cytolytic and secretory function with XmAb5574 compared with the nonengineered antibody is associated with enhanced NK-cell activation, interferon production, extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation downstream of Fcgamma receptor, and no increased NK-cell apoptosis. Notably, enhanced NK cell-mediated ADCC with XmAb5574 was enhanced further by lenalidomide. These findings provide strong support for further clinical development of XmAb5574 as both a monotherapy and in combination with lenalidomide for the therapy of CLL and related CD19(+) B-cell malignancies."
228	"OBJECTIVE: To use a purely geometric data-unravelling method to identify, without a priori, direct links of neoangiogenesis with known clinicobiologic variables in 23 untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients at the time of marrow sampling. STUDY DESIGN: We measured neovascular surface density (CD34 endothelial marker) in the 10 most labeled fields (hVA), cellularity (CA) and the percentage of avascular fields (AVF) in bone marrow biopsy specimens from 34 patients with CLL. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was assayed in thawed serum samples from 8 of the 23 untreated patients (12 Rai stage 0, 6 Rai stage I-II, 5 Binet stage B-C). RESULTS: Neoangiogenesis hVA was lower in the 12 stage O patients (p < 0.039) and in the 6 patients with nodular interstitial mixed infiltration (p = 0.058). The link between hVA and serum VEGF (sVEGF) was negative in 8 patients (R = -0.49, -0.70 for a given age). Age was linked to moderate interstitial infiltration (p < 0.02), AVF (R = 0.37) and lower sVEGF levels (R = -0.676). The blood platelet count showed numerous correlations, including links with AVF (R = 0.40), low hVA  (R = -0.38), female sex (p = 0.068), absence of splenomegaly (p < 0.001), mixed-type infiltration (p < 0.01) and sVEGF (R = 0.38, 0.61 for a given age). CONCLUSION: The links revealed by the iconography of correlations were described  statistically. Surprisingly, negative links of hVA with the sVEGF level, 2 known  prognostic factors, on the one hand, and with the blood platelet count, on the other hand, were found. The direct link between disease progression and the amount of avascular hematopoietic tissue (NS), not previously described, will require further study. Age should be taken into account."
229	"There is a wide variation in the prevalence of various subtypes of non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma worldwide. The aim of this study was to determine the relative frequency of different subtypes of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in Kuwait based on the Revised European-American Lymphoma (REAL) classification. From 1998 to 2006, 738 subjects were included that were registered with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the population-based cancer registry at the Kuwait Cancer Control Center. Expert pathologists reviewed histological slides from all subjects. We performed detailed immunohistochemical studies and classified subjects based on the REAL classification. The prevalence of different types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was determined based on age, sex, site of disease, and ethnicity. Ethnicity groups comprised Kuwaiti Arabs, non Kuwaiti Arabs, Asians, and others. The prevalence of B- and T-cell lymphomas was 81.8% and 14.2%, respectively. The most common age group was 41-60 years old. The three most common subtypes in Kuwaiti Arabs were diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (46.5%), follicular lymphoma (15.5%), and mycosis fungoides (9.3%). In non-Kuwaiti Arabs, the most common subtypes were diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (48%), B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (15.8%), and follicular lymphoma (12.7%). Overall, non-Kuwaiti Arabs exhibited the highest prevalence (59%), and 54% of all cases had extranodal presentation. Compared to the Western world, Kuwait had a lower prevalence of follicular lymphoma, a higher prevalence of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and extranodal presentation, and a high frequency of mycosis fungoides.  Compared to other parts of Asia, Kuwait had a lower frequency of peripheral T-cell lymphomas."
230	"Aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs induce apoptosis in most  cell types. In this study we examined the mechanism of aspirin-induced apoptosis  in human leukemia cells. We analyzed the role of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) pathways. Furthermore,  we studied the changes induced by aspirin in some genes involved in the control of apoptosis at mRNA level, by performing reverse transcriptase multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (RT-MLPA), and at protein level by Western blot. Our results show that aspirin induced apoptosis in leukemia Jurkat T cells  independently of NF-kappaB. Although aspirin induced p38 MAPK and c-Jun N-terminal kinase activation, selective inhibitors of these kinases did not inhibit aspirin-induced apoptosis. We studied the regulation of Bcl-2 family members in aspirin-induced apoptosis. Aspirin increased the mRNA levels of some pro-apoptotic members, such as BIM, NOXA, BMF or PUMA, but their protein levels did not change. In contrast, aspirin decreased the protein levels of Mcl-1. Interestingly, in the presence of aspirin the protein levels of Noxa remained high. This alteration of the Mcl-1/Noxa balance was also found in other leukemia  cell lines and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells (CLL). Furthermore, in  CLL cells aspirin induced an increase in the protein levels of Noxa. Knockdown of Noxa or Puma significantly attenuated aspirin-induced apoptosis. These results indicate that aspirin induces apoptosis through alteration of the Mcl-1/ Noxa balance."
231	"The overall risk of infections is lower in patients undergoing non-myeloablative  allogeneic stem cell transplantation (NST) than in conventional stem cell transplant recipients. We sought to evaluate conditions associated with increased risk of infections after NST. In 81 patients, 187 infection episodes were noted;  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (138 episodes/100 person-years) and recipients of matched unrelated donor graft (128 episodes/100 person-years) had higher risk of  infection. Only half of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections occurred 31-100 days after transplantation. Most patients with CMV infection were non-neutropenic (100%), had lymphoma (76%), were younger (<55 years; 72%) and had received matched related donor (MRD) graft (72%). However, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was present in only 15% of these patients. Seven (78%) of nine invasive fungal infections (IFI) were diagnosed >100 days after NST and were associated with high mortality (78%). Most patients with IFI were also not neutropenic (100%), had received MRD graft (100%), had lymphoma (78%) and were given systemic steroids (78%); unlike CMV infection, 67% of these patients also had GVHD. On the basis of our results, we propose that NST recipients with lymphoma treated with high-dose corticosteroids for GVHD be considered for antifungal prophylaxis or pre-emptive antifungal therapy."
232	"The present study explored the association between dietary vitamin D and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) risk. The multiethnic cohort (MEC) includes more than 215 000 Caucasians, African Americans, Native Hawaiians, Japanese Americans  and Latinos, aged 45-75. After 10 years of follow-up, 939 incident NHL cases were identified. Risk was estimated using proportional hazards' models adjusted for possible confounders. Vitamin D intake was not associated with NHL risk in the entire cohort (P(trend) = 0.72 for men and P(trend) = 0.83 for women), but significantly lowered disease risk in African American women (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.50, 95 % CI: 0.28, 0.90, P(trend) = 0.03) and was borderline protective in African American men (HR = 0.68; 95 % CI: 0.39, 1.19; P(trend) = 0.31) when the highest to the lowest tertile was compared. In NHL subtype analyses, a 19, 36 and 32 % lowered risk, although not significant, was observed for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma and small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia in women, respectively. High dietary intake of vitamin D did not show a protective effect against NHL within the MEC except among African Americans, possibly because vitamin D production due to sun exposure is limited in this population."
233	"Nonviral delivery systems are relatively easy to produce in the large scale, are  safe, and elicit a negligible immune response. Nanoparticles (NPs) offer promise  as nonviral vectors as biocompatible and -degradable carriers of drugs with targeting to specific sites by surface receptors of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). We investigated the effect of four PEG-PLGA (polyethylene glycol-polylactic-co-glycolic acid) NP systems on drug-resistant B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells in vitro, three of them encapsulating the drug, hydroxylchloroquine (HDQ), two with NP surface coatings of mAbs (NP1) CD20, (NP2) CD19, and CD20, and one (NP3) with no mAb, but tagged with the fluorescent  marker, fluorescein isothiocyanate. The fourth NP system (NP4) was coated with anti-CD19/FITC and anti-CD20/Alexa-Fluor((R)) antibodies, but did not contain the active drug, HCQ. Our data indicate that PEG-PLGA nanoparticles with surface mAbs are suitable for selective drug delivery to B-CLL cells and produce a strong apoptotic effect when loaded with the lysosomotropic agent, HDQ."
234	"Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin. MCCs  and some other skin cancers, such as basal cell carcinomas, frequently harbour Merkel cell polyomavirus DNA. The purpose of the study was to investigate the frequency of second cancers following the diagnosis of MCC. We studied the incidence of second primary cancers after the diagnosis of MCC from the files of  the Finnish Cancer Registry in 1979-2006. Among the 172 MCC patients identified a total of 34 second primary cancers were detected in 30 individuals after the diagnosis of MCC. Female MCC patients were diagnosed with 25 subsequent cancers (SIR, 2.35; 95% CI, 1.52-3.47; p<0.001) and male patients with 9 cancers (SIR, 2.32, 95% CI, 1.06-4.40; p<0.05). The MCC patients had an increased risk for a subsequent cancer (any site) compared to age-, gender- and calendar period-matched general population (standardized incidence ratio [SIR] 2.34; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.62-3.27). The risks for basal cell carcinoma of the skin (O=11), SIR, 3.48; 95% CI, 1.74-6.22 and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (O=2), SIR, 17.9; 95% CI, 2.16-64.6 were significantly elevated. The SIRs for an overall second primary cancer risk did not change markedly with time since the diagnosis  of MCC. We conclude that patients diagnosed with MCC have an increased risk for a second cancer. This risk may in part result from shared etiological factors between MCC and other tumour types, such as immunosuppression or possibly Merkel  cell polyomavirus infection."
235	"Melanoma differentiation-associated gene-7/interleukin-24 (mda-7/IL-24) is a novel candidate of tumor suppressor that can selectively induce apoptosis experimentally in a spectrum of human cancer cells including leukemia cells. However, a recent study suggests that mda-7/IL-24 promotes the survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia B-cells. In this study, we showed that mda-7/IL-24 was constitutively expressed in leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia samples. Using a conditionally replicating adenovirus expressing mda-7/IL-24 (ZD55-IL-24), we showed that enforced expression of mda-7/IL-24 in leukemia cells induced autophagy, which was triggered by the upregulation of Beclin-1. Immunofluorescence and coimmunoprecipitation studies suggested that mda-7/IL-24 protein interacts with Beclin-1. Class III PI3K/Beclin-1 complex was  shown involved in the mda-7/IL-24-induced autophagy. Moreover, autophagy inhibition by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor, wortmannin, resulted in a  reduced Beclin-1 expression and autophagosome formation associated with significantly enhanced cell death. Importantly, the combination of ZD55-IL-24 with wortmannin elicited a strongly enhanced antileukemia efficacy in established leukemia xenografts. These results suggest that mda-7/IL-24-induced autophagy in  leukemia cells may provide survival advantage and mda-7/IL-24 combined with agents that disrupt autophagy is a promising new strategy for the treatment of leukemia."
236	"Cancer is a genetic disease in which the interplay between alterations in protein-coding genes and non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) plays a fundamental role. In recent years, the full coding component of the human genome was sequenced in various cancers, whereas such attempts related to ncRNAs are still fragmentary. We screened genomic DNAs for sequence variations in 148 microRNAs (miRNAs) and ultraconserved regions (UCRs) loci in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL) or colorectal cancer (CRC) by Sanger technique and further tried to elucidate the functional consequences of some of these variations. We found sequence variations in miRNAs in both sporadic and familial CLL cases, mutations  of UCRs in CLLs and CRCs and, in certain instances, detected functional effects of these variations. Furthermore, by integrating our data with previously published data on miRNA sequence variations, we have created a catalog of DNA sequence variations in miRNAs/ultraconserved genes in human cancers. These findings argue that ncRNAs are targeted by both germ line and somatic mutations as well as by single-nucleotide polymorphisms with functional significance for human tumorigenesis. Sequence variations in ncRNA loci are frequent and some have functional and biological significance. Such information can be exploited to further investigate on a genome-wide scale the frequency of genetic variations in ncRNAs and their functional meaning, as well as for the development of new diagnostic and prognostic markers for leukemias and carcinomas."
237	"PURPOSE: Genomic complexity is present in approximately 15% to 30% of all chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and has emerged as a strong independent predictor of rapid disease progression and short remission duration in CLL. We conducted this  study to advance our understanding of the causes of genomic complexity in CLL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We have obtained quantitative measurements of radiation-induced apoptosis and radiation-induced ATM autophosphorylation in purified CLL cells from 158 and 140 patients, respectively, and have used multivariate analysis to identify independent contributions of various biological variables on genomic complexity in CLL. RESULTS: Here, we identify a strong independent effect of radiation resistance on elevated genomic complexity in CLL and describe radiation resistance as a predictor for shortened CLL survival. Furthermore, using multivariate analysis, we identify del17p/p53 aberrations, del11q, del13q14 type II (invariably resulting in Rb loss), and CD38 expression as independent predictors of genomic complexity in CLL, with aberrant p53 as a predictor of approximately 50% of genomic complexity in CLL. Focusing on del11q, we determined that normalized ATM  activity was a modest predictor of genomic complexity but was not independent of  del11q. Through single nucleotide polymorphism array-based fine mapping of del11q, we identified frequent monoallelic loss of Mre11 and H2AFX in addition to ATM, indicative of compound del11q-resident gene defects in the DNA double-strand break response. CONCLUSIONS: Our quantitative analysis links multiple molecular defects, including for the first time del11q and large 13q14 deletions (type II), to elevated genomic complexity in CLL, thereby suggesting mechanisms for the observed clinical aggressiveness of CLL in patients with unstable genomes."
238	"Bendamustine is a novel bifunctional alkylating agent with promising activity in  lymphoid malignancies and several solid tumors. Unfortunately, the early development of this agent did not provide sufficient information on which to determine an optimal systematic dose and schedule. As a result, administration of the agent has been inconsistent among studies. The use of this drug has been increasing since it has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for  chronic lymphocytic leukemia and rituximab-refractory indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and is expected to increase further following anticipated European regulatory approval. Thus, a consensus meeting was convened to develop recommendations for standardizing the administration of the drug based on the available clinical data. Recommendations were developed including dose and schedule for the various clinical indications, as a single agent and in combination therapy, and to provide guidance for supportive measures. This report, representing the conclusions of that meeting, should provide guidance for the clinician until definitive dose-finding studies have been conducted."
239	"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system caused by the John Cunningham (JC) virus, a DNA papovavirus. It is usually associated with conditions causing profound immunodeficiency, classically seen in patients with HIV/AIDS. Since its first description in 1958, PML has also been associated with various lymphoproliferative malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). With the use of newer chemotherapeutic agents such as the purine analogue fludarabine and various monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of CLL, more cases of PML are being described. In this article, we describe 3 patients encountered in our clinical practice having CLL and PML infection. All three patients had received fludarabine and rituximab at some point during the course of their chemotherapy. We provide these cases with a review of the literature."
241	"T-cell leukemia/lymphoma protein 1 (TCL1) was recently shown to display an expression pattern in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) corresponding to molecular subtypes, where poor-risk patients demonstrated higher expression levels. Here, we examined the mRNA expression pattern of TCL1 in 144 patients with CLL, including 67 immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) mutated, 58 IGHV unmutated and 19 patients with IGHV3-21 usage. A higher TCL1 expression level was detected in patients with CLL with unmutated vs. mutated IGHV genes (P  < 0.001), whereas no difference was demonstrated within the IGHV3-21 cohort (i.e., mutated vs. unmutated and stereotyped vs. non-stereotyped complementarity  determining region 3). The IGHV3-21 subgroup displayed high TCL1 mRNA expression, differing significantly from other IGHV mutated cases (P < 0.001), although 11/19 had mutated IGHV genes. Furthermore, high TCL1 expression levels were associated  with significantly shorter overall survival (P < 0.001). Altogether, we show that TCL1 mRNA expression may predict clinical outcome in CLL and that the IGHV3-21 subset, regardless of mutational status, displays high TCL1 expression."
242	"Families with multiple individuals affected with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other related B-cell tumors have been described in the literature. Familial CLL does not appear to differ from sporadic CLL in terms of prognostic markers and clinical outcome. While some environmental factors (such as farming related exposures and occupational chemicals) may increase risk of CLL, results of epidemiological studies have been generally inconsistent inconsistent and well-defined extrinsic risk factors are unknown. Large, population-based case-control and cohort studies have also shown significant familial aggregation  of CLL and related conditions including non-Hodgkin lymphomas, especially other indolent lymphomas. The precursor condition, monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) also aggregates in CLL families. However because the baseline population risks for CLL and other indolent lymphomas are low, the absolute risk to a first-degree relative for developing CLL or a related disease is also low. Linkage studies have been conducted in high-risk CLL families to screen the whole genome for loci that contribute to susceptibility but no gene mutations have yet  been identified by this method. Association studies of candidate genes have implicated several genes as being important in CLL but more studies are needed to verify these findings. Results from whole genome association are promising. The ability to conduct large scale genomic studies will play an important role in detecting susceptibility genes for CLL over the next few years and thereby help to delineate etiologic pathways."
243	"HLA-G is a nonclassic MHC class I molecule that functions as an immunomodulatory  molecule;which has a direct inhibitory effect on immune responses and induces the generation of suppressor or regulatory cells. The relevance of HLA-G in various pathologic conditions, such as transplantation, autoimmunity and infectious and malignant diseases, has been extensively investigated. In the context of hematologic malignancies, such as acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and lymphoma, the expression and clinical significance of HLA-G was discussed; however, interpretation remains controversial. In this review, we summarize HLA-G expression in hematologic malignancies and emphasize the clinical relevance of this expression to disease progression. The possible mechanism involved in HLA-G expression regulation is also highlighted."
244	"A pilot study previously demonstrated that thrice-weekly, fractionated-dose intravenous rituximab (RTX) limits CD20 loss from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells, thereby enhancing immunotherapeutic targeting. Here, we investigated the feasibility of giving 20 mg rituximab subcutaneously thrice weekly for up to 12 weeks in 4 previously treated CLL patients. Subcutaneous rituximab was well-tolerated with minimal injection site reactions; a variable degree of efficacy was observed, likely influenced by the size of the patients' B cell/CD20 burden. Subcutaneous RTX largely preserved CD20 expression on leukemic  cells but the most effective therapeutic dosing regimen needs to be established (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00366418)."
245	"The 51st American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting and Exposition, held in New Orleans, included topics covering new therapeutic developments in the field of hematology. This conference report highlights selected presentations on  hematological malignancies, lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, AKT inhibitors for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and the activation of GPIb with von Willebrand factor. Investigational drugs discussed include conatumumab (Amgen Inc/Takeda Bio Development Center Ltd) and A-443654 (Abbott Laboratories)."
246	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells are characterized by defective apoptosis which leads to their extended survival. Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) was reported to induce cell death in many malignant cells, but the specific pathway of As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis/necrosis remains controversial. Our aim was to determine if As(2)O(3) kills CLL cells through apoptosis and whether this is accompanied by reduction in Bcl-2 levels. Cells from nine patients with CLL were  incubated with increasing concentrations of As(2)O(3) (0.5-2 microM) for 2, 7, or 14 days. Cells viability was measured using Alamar Blue assay and apoptosis using human Annexin V-FITC and propidium iodine (PI) kit (BMS306FI; Bender MedSystems,  Vienna, Austria). Intracellular Bcl-2, Bax, and caspase-3 levels were measured by flow cytometry. As(2)O(3) significantly reduced CLL cell viability (P < 0.01) and induced apoptotic cell death in a time- and dose-dependent manner. After 7 days,  CLL cells showed a significant decrease in mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of Bcl-2 on flow cytometry study. Bax and caspase-3 levels showed significant decrease in MFI only after prolonged incubations (7 and 14 days) and mostly at higher concentrations of As(2)O(3). The mechanism underlying the reduction in viability of CLL cells incubated with As(2)O(3) is mediated by induction of apoptosis maybe through the down-regulation of Bcl-2. Further studies are needed  to elucidate the potential therapeutic role of As(2)O(3) in CLL."
250	"Despite advances in therapy, chronic lymphocytic leukemia remains an incurable disease and novel, effective therapies are needed. In this open-label, dose-escalation, phase I study, dacetuzumab (IgG1 humanized monoclonal antibody)  was administered to 12 adults, all of whom had received several prior systemic therapies (median, 4; range, 2-11). Intrapatient dose escalation (maximum weekly  doses of 3-8 mg/kg) was used to diminish first-dose-related inflammatory symptoms. No dose-limiting toxicities or dose-dependent trends in adverse events  (AEs) were observed. The most common AEs (in >/=2 patients) were fatigue, headache, anorexia, conjunctivitis, hyperhidrosis, and night sweats, all of which were mild or moderate. No deaths, serious AEs, or discontinuations due to AEs occurred. Although no patient achieved an objective response, five patients demonstrated stable disease after 1 cycle of therapy, with no discernable correlation between dacetuzumab dose and outcome. This modest single-agent activity may warrant further testing of dacetuzumab in combination with other chronic lymphocytic leukemia therapies."
251	"The TCL1 mouse has been proposed as a mouse model for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This review details how it resembles the aggressive form of the disease rather than the more common indolent form. Although fulfilled predictions in the  human disease based on investigations in the mouse model are at present lacking,  there are remarkable similarities between human and mouse leukemias that have led to interesting observations on the pathophysiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and have identified putative therapeutic targets."
254	"The biological behavior of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma is unpredictable. Nonetheless, non-mutated IgV(H) gene rearrangement, ATM (11q22-23) and p53 (17p13) deletion are recognized as unfavorable prognosticators in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The mRNA expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), an enzyme indispensable for somatic  hypermutation processes, was claimed to be predictive of non-mutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in blood. Here, we evaluated AID protein expression compared with known molecular and immunohistochemical prognostic indicators in 71 chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma patients using a tissue microarray approach. We found AID heterogeneously expressed in tumor cells as shown by colocalization analysis for CD5 and CD23. Ki-67 positive paraimmunoblasts of the proliferation centers displayed the highest expression. This observation is reflected by a significant association of AID positivity with a high proliferation rate (P=0.012). ATM deletion was detected in 10% (6/63) of patients and p53 deletion in 19% (13/67) of patients. Moreover, both ATM (P=0.002) and p53 deletion (P=0.004) were significantly associated with AID. IgV(H) gene mutation was seen in 45% (27/60) of patients. Twenty-five percent (17/69) of patients with AID-positive chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma displayed a shorter survival than AID-negative chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma patients (61 vs 130 months, P=0.001). Although there was a trend, we could not show an association with the IgV(H) gene mutation status. Taken together, our study shows that AID expression  is an indicator of an unfavorable prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma patients, although it is not a surrogate marker for the IgV(H) status. Furthermore, the microenvironment of proliferation centers seems to influence AID regulation and might be an initiating factor in its transformation."
255	"To identify new risk variants for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we conducted a genome-wide association study of 299,983 tagging SNPs, with validation in four additional series totaling 2,503 cases and 5,789 controls. We  identified four new risk loci for CLL at 2q37.3 (rs757978, FARP2; odds ratio (OR) = 1.39; P = 2.11 x 10(-9)), 8q24.21 (rs2456449; OR = 1.26; P = 7.84 x 10(-10)), 15q21.3 (rs7169431; OR = 1.36; P = 4.74 x 10(-7)) and 16q24.1 (rs305061; OR = 1.22; P = 3.60 x 10(-7)). We also found evidence for risk loci at 15q25.2 (rs783540, CPEB1; OR = 1.18; P = 3.67 x 10(-6)) and 18q21.1 (rs1036935; OR = 1.22; P = 2.28 x 10(-6)). These data provide further evidence for genetic susceptibility to this B-cell hematological malignancy."
256	"BACKGROUND: Patients with human platelet antigen (HPA) specific antibodies in cases of neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia and platelet (PLT) refractoriness derive clinical benefit from the use of HPA-selected PLTs. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: This study describes three patients with underlying diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and myelodysplasia, respectively, who underwent allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) with unrelated donors matched at the HLA-A, B, C, Dr, and DQ loci but who failed to achieve an adequate PLT count. Investigation using PLT  immunofluorescence test, monoclonal antibody immobilization of PLT antigens assay, and genotyping revealed the presence of recipient-derived HPA-1a antibodies. RESULTS: In two patients, anti-HPA-1a was detected post-BMT and in the third patient, anti-HPA-1a was detected during pre-BMT chemotherapy. Despite apparent 100% engraftment of donor cells, the patients' PLT counts failed to recover 9-10  months posttransplant. The patients remained PLT-transfusion dependent and failed to achieve satisfactory increments following random donor or HLA-matched PLT transfusions. After the identification of HPA-1a antibodies, the patients were supported by HPA-1a(-) PLTs and satisfactory posttransfusion PLT increments were  obtained. These cases illustrate that HPA-1a antibodies may remain detectable for 10 months following apparently successful donor engraftment and the disappearance of recipient-derived HLA antibodies. The prolonged persistence of recipient-derived PLT-specific antibodies following BMT has to our knowledge not  been described previously. CONCLUSION: HPA-1a antibodies were associated with protracted PLT-transfusion dependence and significant hemorrhagic complications. Appropriate and timely laboratory investigation for HPA-specific antibodies followed by transfusion support with HPA-selected PLTs provided the cornerstone of the hemostatic management in these cases."
257	"The ribosome-lamella complex (RLC) is a cylindrical structure composed of different numbers of circular lamellae with associated particles, regarded as ribosomes, around a central core. Structures resembling RLC, but lacking the typical mature appearance of RLC, have been called pre-RLC. The authors have found RLCs and pre-RLCs in peripheral lymphocytes of 3 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The fact that CLL patients with RLCs were in early Rai clinical stages, had good clinical prognostic factors, and did not require immediate therapy indicates that RLCs occurred in the early course of some cases  of CLL. Moreover, the presence of RLC was associated with hypogammaglobulinemia M."
261	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) migration involves several molecules, including matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). We have studied whether VEGF regulates MMP-9. VEGF significantly reduced MMP-9 protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, measured by gelatin  zymography. Blocking the VEGFR2 receptor restored MMP-9 levels, implicating this  receptor in the observed effect. Down-regulation of MMP-9 by VEGF resulted in significant inhibition of B-CLL cell migration through Matrigel or human umbilical vein endothelial cells, confirming the crucial role of MMP-9 in these processes. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analyses revealed that VEGF regulated MMP-9 at the transcriptional level. Indeed, VEGF induced STAT1 tyrosine phosphorylation, and this was blocked by inhibiting VEGFR2. STAT1 was responsible for MMP-9 down-regulation, as STAT1 gene silencing restored MMP-9 production and B-CLL cell migration in the presence of VEGF. Thus, the levels of  VEGF and MMP-9 influence B-CLL cell expansion and both molecules could constitute therapeutic targets for this disease."
262	"We determined lymphoid enhancer-binding factor-1 (LEF1) mRNA expression in 112 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples and assessed correlations with the prognostic markers ZAP70 and CD38, Binet stages, the percentage of lymphocytes in the peripheral blood, and fibromodulin (FMOD) transcripts. The mean LEF1 relative expression ratios (RER) were 53.72 and 37.10 in ZAP70-positive and ZAP70-negative patients, respectively (P=0.004). However, we did not observe a significant difference in LEF1 expression between CD38-positive and CD38-negative patients. Moreover, patients requiring treatment showed a mean LEF1 RER of 85.61 whereas patients in recently diagnosed Binet A stage had a mean of only 22.01 (P<0.001).  We also found significant correlations of LEF1 with the percentage of lymphocytes and FMOD expression. Our results suggest that high LEF1 expression is associated  with poor prognosis and disease progression. Thus, LEF1 might be involved in the  process of disease progression and possibly can serve as a molecular parameter for risk assessment and/or monitoring of CLL."
263	"Preclinical data demonstrate enhanced antitumor effect when lumiliximab, an anti-CD23 monoclonal antibody, is combined with fludarabine or rituximab. Clinical data from a phase 1 trial with lumiliximab demonstrated an acceptable toxicity profile in patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We therefore pursued a phase 1/2 dose-escalation study of lumiliximab added to fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR) in previously treated CLL patients. Thirty-one patients received either 375 mg/m(2)  (n = 3) or 500 mg/m(2) (n = 28) of lumiliximab in combination with FCR for 6 cycles. The toxicity profile was similar to that previously reported for FCR in treatment of relapsed CLL. The overall response rate was 65%, with 52% of patients achieving a complete response (CR), which compares favorably with the CR rate previously reported for the FCR regimen alone in relapsed CLL. The estimated median progression-free survival for all responders was 28.7 months. The addition of lumiliximab to FCR therapy is feasible, achieves a high CR rate, and does not  appear to enhance toxicity in previously treated patients with CLL. A randomized  trial comparing lumiliximab plus FCR with FCR alone is underway to define the benefit of this combination in relapsed CLL. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00103558."
264	"PURPOSE: Flavopiridol downmodulates antiapoptotic proteins associated with resistance to fludarabine and rituximab and is effective against p53-mutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We conducted a phase I study of flavopiridol, fludarabine, and rituximab (FFR) in patients with mantle-cell lymphoma (MCL), indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (B-NHL), and CLL to determine the activity of FFR. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Therapy included fludarabine 25 mg/m(2) intravenously (IV)  days 1 to 5 and rituximab 375 mg/m(2) day 1 every 28 days for 6 cycles. We administered flavopiridol 50 mg/m(2) by 1-hour IV bolus (IVB) day 1 (n = 15); day 1 to 2 (n = 6); 20 mg/m(2) 30-minute IVB + 20 mg/m(2) 4-hour IV infusion (n = 3); or 30 mg/m(2) + 30 mg/m(2) (n = 14). RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients (median age, 62 years) with MCL (n = 10); indolent B-NHL including follicular (n = 9), marginal zone (n = 4), lymphoplasmacytic (n = 1), or small lymphocytic lymphoma (n = 3); and CLL (n = 11), were enrolled. Twenty-two patients were previously untreated; 16 had received one to two prior therapies. Two patients in cohort 2 developed grade 3 dose-limiting toxicity (seizures, renal insufficiency). The median number of treatment cycles was 4, with cytopenias (n = 10) and fatigue (n = 3) the most common reasons for early discontinuation. Overall response rate was 82% (complete response, 50%; unconfirmed complete response, 5%; partial response, 26%), including 80% of patients with MCL (median age, 68; seven complete responses, one partial response). Median progression-free survival (PFS) was 25.6 months. Median PFS of  patients with nonblastoid variant MCL (n = 8) was 35.9 months. CONCLUSION: FFR was active in MCL, indolent B-NHL, and CLL and should be studied  for older patients with MCL who are not candidates for aggressive chemotherapy."
268	"The cyclin dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors p15, p16, p21, and p27 are frequently deleted, silenced, or downregulated in many malignancies. Inactivation of CDK inhibitors predisposes mice to tumor development, showing that these genes function as tumor suppressors. Here, we describe high-throughput murine leukemia  virus insertional mutagenesis screens in mice that are deficient for one or two CDK inhibitors. We retrieved 9,117 retroviral insertions from 476 lymphomas to define hundreds of loci that are mutated more frequently than expected by chance. Many of these loci are skewed toward a specific genetic context of predisposing germline and somatic mutations. We also found associations between these loci with gender, age of tumor onset, and lymphocyte lineage (B or T cell). Comparison of retroviral insertion sites with single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia revealed a significant overlap between the datasets. Together, our findings highlight the importance of genetic context within large-scale mutation detection studies, and they show a novel use for insertional mutagenesis data in prioritizing disease-associated genes that emerge from genome-wide association studies."
270	"PURPOSE: B-cell receptor signaling plays an important role in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, blocking B-cell receptor signaling with dasatinib, an inhibitor of SRC kinase, produced variable results in preclinical and clinical studies. We aim to define the molecular mechanisms underlying the differential dasatinib sensitivity and to uncover more effective therapeutic targets in CLL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Fresh CLL B cells were treated with dasatinib, and cell viability was followed. The CLL cases were then divided into good and poor responders. The cellular response was correlated with the activities of B-cell receptor signaling molecules, as well as with molecular and cytogenetic prognostic factors. RESULTS: Among 50 CLL cases, dasatinib treatment reduced cell viability by 2% to  90%, with an average reduction of 47% on day 4 of culture. The drug induced CLL cell death through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway mediated by reactive oxygen species. Unexpectedly, phosphorylation of SRC family kinases was inhibited by dasatinib in good, as well as poor, responders. As opposed to SRC family kinases, activities of two downstream molecules, SYK and phospholipase Cgamma2, correlate  well with the apoptotic response of CLL cells to dasatinib. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, SYK inhibition predicts cellular response to dasatinib. SYK, together with phospholipase Cgamma2, may serve as potential biomarkers to predict dasatinib therapeutic response in patients. From the pathogenic perspective, our  study suggests the existence of alternative mechanisms or pathways that activate  SYK, independent of SRC kinase activities. The study further implicates that SYK  might serve as a more effective therapeutic target in CLL treatment."
271	"PURPOSE: To determine the antitumor activity of the novel proteasome inhibitor bortezomib in patients with indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Patients with follicular lymphoma (FL), marginal zone lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia were eligible for study. Bortezomib was given at a dose of 1.5 mg/m(2) as an i.v. push on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of a 21-day cycle. Eligibility included the following: (a) no more than three prior therapies, (b) at least 1 month since prior chemotherapy, (c) measurable disease, and (d) an absolute neutrophil count of >1,000/microL and a platelet count >50,000/microL for the first dose of any cycle. RESULTS: Seventy-seven patients were registered, of which 69 were assessable for  response based on the completion of two cycles of therapy. Subtypes included FL (59.5%), mantle cell lymphoma (52%), small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (16.2%), marginal zone lymphoma (21.6%), and one Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. The median number of prior therapies was three.  The most common grade 3 toxicity was lymphopenia (35%) and thrombocytopenia (31%). Twenty-five patients experienced grade <or=2 sensory neuropathy (32), and  8% experienced grade 3 neurosensory toxicity. The overall response rate was 45% (40% on an intention to treat) including 10 complete remissions. Of 18 patients with FL, 9 responded with 4 complete response. The median time to treatment response for FL was 12 weeks, whereas the median time to treatment response for other subtypes of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was only 4 weeks. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that bortezomib has significant single agent activity in patients with FL, and that longer durations of treatment may improve  overall response."
274	"Although chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable, over the past decade there have been major advances in understanding the pathophysiology of CLL and in the treatment of this disease. This has led to greatly increased response  rates and durations of response but not yet improved survival. Advances in the use of prognostic factors that identify patients at high risk for progression have led us to the question whether there is still a role for a "watch and wait"  approach in asymptomatic high-risk patients or whether they should be treated earlier in their disease course. Questions remain, including, what is the optimal first-line treatment and its timing and is there any role of maintenance therapy  or stem cell transplantation in this disease? CLL is a disease of the elderly and not all patients are eligible for aggressive up-front chemoimmunotherapy regimens, so what is the optimal treatment approach for more frail elderly patients? It is highly likely that our treatment approaches will continue to evolve as the results of ongoing clinical trials are released and that further improvements in the outcome of this disease will result from identification of therapies that target the underlying pathophysiology of CLL."
275	"The paternally expressed gene PEG10 is a retrotransposon derived gene adapted through mammalian evolution located on human chromosome 7q21. PEG10 codes for at  least two proteins, PEG10-RF1 and PEG10-RF1/2, by -1 frameshift translation. Overexpression or reinduced PEG10 expression was seen in malignancies, like hepatocellular carcinoma or B-cell acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. PEG10  was also shown to promote adipocyte differentiation. Experimental evidence suggests that the PEG10-RF1 protein is an inhibitor of apoptosis and mediates cell proliferation. Here we present new data on the genomic organization of PEG10 by identifying the major transcription start site, a new splice variant and report the cloning and analysis of 1.9 kb of the PEG10 promoter. Furthermore, we  show for the first time that PEG10 translation is initiated at a non-AUG start codon upstream of the previously predicted AUG codon as well as at the AUG codon. The finding that PEG10 translation is initiated at different sides adds a new aspect to the already interesting feature of PEG10's -1 frameshift translation mechanism. It is now important to unravel the cellular functions of the PEG10 protein variants and how they are related to normal or pathological conditions. The generated promoter-reporter constructs can be used for future studies to investigate how PEG10 expression is regulated. In summary, our study provides new data on the genomic organization as well as expression and translation of PEG10,  a prerequisite in order to study and understand the role of PEG10 in cancer, embryonic development and normal cell homeostasis."
276	"The cell of origin of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has long been sought, and immunoglobulin gene analysis provides new clues. In the unmutated subset (U-CLL), there is increased usage of the 51p1-related alleles of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable 1-69 gene, often combined with selected genes and with immunoglobulin heavy chain diversity IGHJ6. Stereotypic characteristics  of the HCDR3 result and suggest antigen selection of the leukemic clones. We have now analyzed 51p1/IGHJ6 combinations in normal blood B cells from 3 healthy persons for parallel sequence patterns. A high proportion (33.3% of sequences) revealed stereotypic patterns, with several (15.0%) being similar to those described in U-CLL. Previously unreported CLL-associated stereotypes were detected in 4.8%. Stereotypes (13.6%) not detected in CLL also were found. The HCDR2-IGHJ6 sequences were essentially unmutated. Junctional amino acids in normal B cells were heterogeneous, as in cases of stereotyped CLL. Phenotypically, normal B cells expressing 51p1-derived immunoglobulin M were naive. This snapshot of the naive B-cell repertoire reveals subsets of B cells closely related to those characteristic of CLL. Conserved patterns in the 51p1-encoded immunoglobulin M of normal B cells suggest a restricted sequence repertoire shaped by evolution to recognize common pathogens. Proliferative pressure on these cells is the likely route to U-CLL."
277	"While chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) are common diseases in the elderly, they rarely occur simultaneously in the same patient. Here we present the case of a 77-year-old patient diagnosed with CML in  the chronic phase who showed an optimal response to 400 mg/day of imatinib. This  patient progressed to Binet B-CLL with an 11q22.3 deletion and CD38 positivity in the 4th month of treatment. During the follow-up, his lymphocyte number doubled in <6 months. Based on previous reports, dasatinib was chosen instead of imatinib. After 6 months of treatment with 100 mg/day of dasatinib, the patient demonstrated a partial response, characterized by the regression of lymph node enlargement, a hemoglobin level of 10.7 g/dl, neutrophils of 1.7 × 10(9)/l, a 82% reduction in the lymphocyte number and an increase in cytotoxic CD8+ and large granular lymphocytes. This partial response has persisted to the present time. While little data have been published regarding the in vitro effect of dasatinib  monotherapy for CLL, this case report provides some evidence of the clinical activity of dasatinib in CLL."
279	"Hypercalcemia in malignancies is a frequent complication, mostly affecting patients with solid tumors or multiple myeloma. Calcium elevation is induced by direct bone infiltration of a tumor mass or through calcium liberation from the skeleton by a humoral mediator. The latter mechanism is referred to as humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy (HHM). Frequent mediators of HHM are parathyroid hormone-related peptides (PTHrP). We report a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hypercalcemia induced by PTHrP. In contrast to solid tumors and myeloma, PTHrP-induced HHM is very rare in low-grad lymphoma including chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Therapeutical approaches consist of cytoreductive treatment and calcium-lowering therapy with bisphosphonates."
281	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a heterogeneous disease with variable clinical course and prognosis. Therefore, the role of prognostic factors is very  important, especially for identifying the group of patients who require intensive treatment. The aim of this study was to assess whether the rate of apoptosis caused by purine analogues differs between patients with better or worse prognostic factors. The experiments were preformed in cultures of blood and bone  marrow obtained from CLL patients. The cultures were supplemented with cladribine and fludarabine. We determined the percentage of caspase-3-positive cells and the BCL-2/BAX ratio, and subsequently these apoptosis markers were correlated with the expression of ZAP-70 and CD38, lymphocyte counts, lactate dehydrogenase and beta(2)-microglobulin levels and clinical stage according to the Rai classification. The results showed that bone marrow cells are more sensitive to apoptosis caused by purine analogues than cells derived from blood, supporting the idea that these two compartments have different proliferative statuses. The cells from ZAP-70-positive patients seem to enter apoptosis more readily than those from ZAP-70-negative patients; thus, ZAP-70-positive patients are more likely to benefit from treatment with purine analogues."
282	"A patient with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) presented to our clinic with a hepatic mass as well as lymphocytosis. Biopsy of the hepatic mass revealed apposed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Dramatic examples of lymphoma regression during treatment with antiviral medication in chronic HCV patients have suggested an etiologic role for HCV in lymphomagenesis. A growing body of research seeks to clarify the details of the interaction between HCV and B-cell lymphomas. This case of adjacent SLL/CLL and HCC is the first published diagnosis of these two diseases in the liver at one time, and the only published example of the physical apposition of any lymphoma and HCC. The case is provocative in light of recent evidence that local interactions between HCV-infected hepatocytes and B cells may contribute to lymphomagenesis."
283	"Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has recently undergone several major changes. Most importantly, large randomized trials (CLL-8 in first line and REACH in relapse) clearly demonstrated superiority of chemoimmunotherapy consisting of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR) over fludarabine  and cyclophosphamide (FC) alone, thus establishing FCR regimen as the new gold standard in younger and physically fit patients. However, management of elderly and/or comorbid patients is still a challenging task because they cannot be treated with agressive approaches due to high risk of unacceptable toxicity. To date, no randomized trials in this patient population have improved therapeutic results over chlorambucil; therefore, this agent remains the backbone of treatment against which the new protocols should be tested. When deciding about the intensity of treatment, performance status, biological age and number as well as severity of comorbidities should be taken into account. Emerging treatment concepts for elderly/comorbid patients include combination of chlorambucil with monoclonal antibodies (rituximab, ofatumumab, GA-101), fludarabine-based regimens in reduced doses or protocols based on bendamustine and lenalidomide. Combination of high-dose steroids with rituximab represent a promising option in relapsed/refractory CLL; however, infectious toxicity remains a serious issue. Finally, ofatumumab monotherapy appears to be a safe and effective therapy for heavily pretreated patients with CLL. This article reviews the current and future possibilities in the treatment of elderly and comorbid patients with CLL."
284	"Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most commonly diagnosed hematological malignancy, characterized by a monoclonal proliferation of malignant cells in the bone marrow. Despite recent advances in treatment strategies, MM remains incurable and new therapeutical targets are needed. Recently forodesine, a purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitor, was found to induce apoptosis in leukemic cells of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients by increasing the dGTP levels. We  therefore tested whether forodesine was able to inhibit proliferation and/or induce apoptosis in both murine and human MM cells through a similar pathway. We  found that after 48 hours of treatment with forodesine there was a slight dGTP increase in 5T33MM and RPMI-8226 MM cells associated with partial inhibition of proliferation and a limited induction of apoptosis. When investigating the pathways leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, we observed an upregulation  of p27, caspase 3, and BIM. We can conclude that forodesine has some effects on MM cells but not as impressive as the known effects in leukemic cells. Forodesine might be however potentiating towards other established cytotoxic drugs in MM."
285	"New therapeutic strategies developed recently for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have led to remarkable treatment response rates and complete hematological  remissions. This means highly sensitive and specific techniques are increasingly  needed to evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) in CLL patients. Quantitative MRD levels can be used as prognostic markers, where total MRD eradication is associated with prolonged survival. Nowadays, PCR and flow cytometry techniques used to detect MRD in CLL patients can generate reliable and quantitative results with the highest sensitivity. MRD Flow is based on four-color flow cytometry using specific antibody combinations. For allele specific oligonucleotide real-time quantification (ASO RQ) PCR individual primers are designed to detect a specific immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) rearrangement in each patient clone. Five comprehensive studies investigated and compared the sensitivity and specificity of both methods. Groups of patients receiving different therapies were analyzed at different time points to generate quantitative MRD levels and MRD kinetics. All studies confirmed that both methods generate equivalent results with regard to sensitivity and MRD quantification, although each method has advantages and disadvantages in the daily routine of a standard hematological laboratory. Here, we review these investigations and compare their results in the light of modern therapies."
287	"Metabolic pathway enzymes, such as Cytochrome P450 (CYP), glutathione S-transferase (GST), and N-acetyltransferases (NAT) are involved in activation and detoxification of environmental carcinogens as well as drug metabolism. We hypothesized that the genetic variations in such metabolic pathways may affect NHL prognosis and survival. Follow-up information of 496 female NHL incident cases diagnosed during 1996-2000 in Connecticut were abstracted from the Connecticut Tumor Registry in 2008; survival analyses were conducted by comparing the Kaplan-Meier curves, and hazard ratios (HR) were computed from the Cox Proportional Hazard models adjusting for demographic and tumor characteristics which were suggested by previous studies to be determinants of NHL survival. We identified six SNPs from four metabolism genes (CYP2E1, GSTP1, GSTT1, and NAT1) that were associated with NHL survival. Specifically, polymorphisms in GSTT1 were associated with follicular lymphoma survival; and polymorphisms in CYP2E1, GSTP1, and NAT1 were associated with survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Our study suggests that genetic polymorphisms in metabolic  pathways may help improve the prediction of NHL survival and prognosis."
289	"The pharmacokinetics, bioavailability and effects on electrocardiographic (ECG) parameters of fludarabine phosphate (2F-ara-AMP) were evaluated in adult patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Patients received single doses of intravenous (IV) (25 mg/m(2), n=14) or oral (40 mg/m(2), n=42) 2F-ara-AMP. Plasma concentrations of drug and metabolites and digital 12-lead ECGs were monitored for 23 h after dosing. The dephosphorylated product fludarabine (2F-ara-A) was the principal metabolite present in the systemic circulation. Mean (+/-SD) elimination half-life did not differ significantly between IV and oral dosage groups (11.3+/-4.0 vs 9.7+/-2.0 h, p=0.053). Renal excretion was a major clearance pathway, along with transformation to a hypoxanthine metabolite 2F-ara-Hx. Estimated mean oral bioavailability of 2F-ara-A was 58%. Compared to the time-matched drug-free baseline Fridericia correction of the QT interval (QTcF), the mean QTcF change following 2F-ara-AMP did not differ from zero, and a treatment effect of >+10 and >+15 ms could be excluded following oral and IV 2F-ara-AMP, respectively. Similarly, heart rate, PR interval and QRS duration did not change following 2F-ara-AMP treatment. Thus the 25 mg/m(2) IV and 40 mg/m(2)  oral doses of 2F-ara-AMP produce similar systemic exposure, and do not prolong QTcF, indicating low risk of drug induced Torsades de Pointes."
290	"BACKGROUND: New prognostic factors such as IgVh mutational status, ZAP-70 protein expression and cytogenetic abnormalities have shown to offer important prognostic information for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Our aim was to  evaluate the optimal cut-off for IgVh mutational status, ZAP-70 expression and cytogenetic abnormalities in association with disease progression defined as the  need for treatment within 3~years from diagnosis in 170 patients with B-CLL. DESIGN AND METHODS: Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis and multivariate general linear models (GLMs) were used to investigate the most significant cut-off values of these biomarkers and their prognostic impact. RESULTS: Our findings estimated that the optimal cut-off for IgVh mutation status and for ZAP-70 protein expression was 97% and 16.5% respectively and a high concordance between the two was demonstrated. We identified 30% as being the best-cut-off for 17p-, 11q- and 6q-. In univariate analysis 17p- was found to be  a significant predictor of the event only for the whole population. Multivariate  analysis including all biological parameters, identified 11q deletion as the only significant regressor. CONCLUSIONS: We assessed that IgVh mutational status, ZAP-70 protein and 6q- are  powerful prognostic markers. Analyses of all these factors revealed that 11q deletion was the strongest predictor of disease progression in B-CLL."
291	"Recent studies have shown a higher frequency of immunoglobulin heavy (IGH@) locus rearrangement in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) than previously reported. However, association of the IGH@ rearrangement with specific chromosomal abnormalities and immunophenotypic markers in B-CLL is still under further investigation. In this study, we analyzed 149 bone marrow aspirate or peripheral blood specimens from patients diagnosed with B-CLL, evaluated by four  different laboratory studies: morphology examination, three- or four-color flow cytometry analysis, conventional cytogenetics, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with a dual-color, break-apart IGH@ probe in addition to a B-CLL FISH probe panel for del(11)(q22) ATM, del(13)(q14.3), del(17)(p13) TP53, and +12. An IGH@ rearrangement was found by FISH in 24 cases (16.0%). Of these 24 cases, 16 (67%) contained chromosomal abnormalities, including t(14;19)(q32;q13.2), t(8;14)(q24;q32), and t(14;18)(q32;q21). In addition, a cryptic deletion of the immunoglobulin heavy variable region (IGHV) was revealed. Using 30% as the cutoff for positive CD38 expression, 22 of the 24 cases (92%) were positive for CD38. The present results further confirm that IGH@ rearrangement is not a rare genomic abnormality in B-CLL, and also show both that t(14;19)(q32;q13.2) is the most common cytogenetic change involving IGH@ rearrangement detected by FISH in B-CLL and that IGH@ rearrangement is correlated with CD38 expression. It is appropriate to include an IGH@ probe in the FISH panel for B-CLL diagnosis."
292	"Lymphoid-enhancing factor/T-cell factors (LEF1/TCF) are a high-mobility group of  transcriptional factors that play essential roles in cell fate determination during early embryogenesis and ontogenesis. Aberrant activations of LEF1/TCF-mediated transcription have been implicated in a variety of malignancies. Our recent studies on vertebrate embryogenesis identified Xom, a homeobox protein of the bone morphogenetic protein 4 pathway, as a novel LEF/TCF-associated transcriptional modulator. Here, we report that VentX, a human Xom homologue, is a LEF/TCF-associated inhibitor of canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling and a negative regulator of cell proliferation. VentX is predominantly  expressed in hematopoietic cells, and its expression is significantly downregulated in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Altered expression of VentX is associated with corresponding changes of LEF/TCF target oncogenes such as cyclin  D1, suggesting a potential role of VentX in the clinical behavior of hematopoietic malignancies."
293	"Adult T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma (ATL) is rarely seen in the U.S. and Europe, usually limited to African Americans from the southeastern U.S. and immigrants from HTLV-1 endemic areas. Reaching an accurate and timely diagnosis of ATL in such nonendemic areas can be challenging, owing to limited exposure, diverse manifestations, and varying cell morphology. We present a case of chronic adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia- (CLL-) like morphology that remained untreated for ten years and then developed treatment refractory acute ATL crisis."
295	"BACKGROUND: Monoclonal components (MCs) are frequently detected in the sera of patients with B-cell malignancies, by techniques that are getting more and more sensitive. Only few chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients with multiple serum paraproteins are reported in the literature. METHODS: In this case report we present a 71-year-old woman with CLL and serum MCs. Immunofixation was performed on agarose film using anti-sera monospecific for the heavy and light chains of human immunoglobulins (anti-gamma, -alpha, -mu, -delta, -epsilon, -kappa, -lambda). Serum free light chains (FLCs) were quantified nephelometrically. Immunofluorescence analysis was performed using fluorochrome-conjugated goat antibodies specific for human mu, gamma or alpha immunoglobulin heavy chains and K or lamda light chains. RESULTS: Immunofixation revealed two different MCs (IgGlambda + lambda light-chains) in the serum and only one MC (lambda light chains) in concentrated  urine. Serum lamda FLCs were 206 mg/L. The bone marrow aspiration and biopsy revealed a 38 % interstitial and nodular infiltration of mature small lymphocytes expressing IgG lambda surface immunoglobulins CD 19, CD20, CD5, and CD23, with negative BCL-1, t(11, 14) and cyclin D1. The plasma cells were less than 1%. Final diagnosis was CLL (Rai stage I) with IgG lamda plus lamda serum paraproteins. Three years later, the patient died because of myocardial infarction after a follow-up period with no need for CLL therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Our hypothesis is that the double MC may be the result of an unbalanced immunoglobulin chain synthesis by the leukemic B-cell clone, resulting in IgGlamda and excess of lambda FLCs."
296	"Therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia has improved dramatically over the past  20 years. Traditional therapy with oral chlorambucil led to complete responses in less than 5% of treated patients, in marked contrast to modern regimens, which can reliably produce complete responses in over 50% of patients. This remarkable  improvement is attributable to the use of purine analogue-based treatment as well as monoclonal antibodies. Novel combinations of these agents have emerged as effective new therapies for previously untreated patients. Clinical studies indicate that such combinations can induce higher response rates (including complete responses) than single-agent therapy. Those patients who achieve a complete response have superior progression-free survival compared with those who achieve only a partial response. Though not yet demonstrated in a prospective randomized trial, treatment approaches aimed at achieving high-quality responses  may one day improve survival for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. However, many challenges remain, such as finding less toxic and equally efficacious regimens for older patients, who remain the majority of the population with this disease."
297	"Even though chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most prevalent leukemia of  the Western world, the development of treatment approaches for CLL has lagged behind the development of approaches to various other hematologic malignancies for a variety of reasons. In recent years, the treatment approach to patients with CLL has evolved rapidly, with the addition of several new prognostic markers, highly effective immunochemotherapy combinations, and attainment of remission up to the point of the eradication of minimal residual disease (MRD). Highly sensitive methods now available to detect MRD can detect a single CLL cell in 10(4) leukocytes using either allele-specific oligonucleotide polymerase chain reaction or four-color or six-color flow cytometry. Over the past decade, several studies have examined the possible advantage of MRD eradication in CLL. This article reviews our current understanding of MRD eradication and analyzes whether it is a desirable goal in the routine clinical treatment of CLL, which will optimize the management of individual patients."
298	"Despite advances in treatment, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable with standard therapies. Novel therapeutic agents are needed, particularly for patients with high-risk cytogenetic abnormalities such as del(17p13). The past year has seen several advances in this field. The immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor flavopiridol demonstrated clinical activity in fludarabine-refractory CLL patients with high-risk cytogenetic features and bulky lymphadenopathy, but they  were associated with toxicities such as tumor flare and tumor lysis. Second-generation monoclonal anti-CD20 antibodies in clinical trials include ofatumumab, which demonstrated activity in fludarabine-refractory patients with bulky lymphadenopathy. Oblimersen, obatoclax, and ABT-263 target the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2. Investigational agents with novel therapeutic targets include the anti-CD37 small modular immunopharmaceutical TRU-016, the oral spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) inhibitor fostamatinib, and the oral phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor CAL-101; all of these have all shown preliminary evidence of clinical activity. The development of novel agents  for treating CLL remains an active, exciting area of research."
299	"Pharmacological manipulation of CXCR4 has proven clinically useful for mobilization of stem and progenitor cells and in several preclinical models of disease. It is a key component in the localization of leukocytes and stem cells.  For patients with multiple myeloma and non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, treatment with plerixafor, an inhibitor of CXCL12 binding to CXCR4, plus G-CSF mobilizes stem cells for autologous transplantation to a greater degree than the treatment with  G-CSF alone, and in some cases when patients could not be mobilized with cytokines, chemotherapy, or the combination. Stem cells from healthy donors mobilized with single agent plerixafor have been used for allogeneic transplantation in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) patients, although this is still in the early phase of clinical development. Plerixafor is also undergoing evaluation to mobilize tumor cells in patients with AML and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to enhance the effectiveness of chemotherapy regimens. Plerixafor's effect on neutrophils may also restore circulating neutrophil counts to normal levels in patients with chronic neutropenias such as in WHIMs syndrome. Other areas where inhibition of CXCR4 may be useful based upon preclinical or clinical data include peripheral vascular disease, autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, pulmonary inflammation, and HIV."
300	"BACKGROUND: Similar to a subset of human patients who progress from monoclonal B  lymphocytosis (MBL) to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), New Zealand Black (NZB) mice have an age-associated progression to CLL. The murine disease is linked to a genetic abnormality in microRNA mir-15a/16-1 locus, resulting in decreased mature miR-15a/16. METHODS: Spleens of aging NZB were analyzed for the presence of B-1 cells via flow cytometry and for the presence of a side population (SP) via the ability of  cells to exclude Hoechst 33342 dye. The SP was assayed for the presence of hyperdiploid B-1 clones and for the ability to differentiate into B-1 cells in vitro and transfer disease in vivo. In addition, enhanced apoptosis of chemoresistant NZB B-1 cells was examined by restoring miR-16 levels in nutlin-treated cells. RESULTS: Aging NZB mice develop a B-1 expansion and clonal development that evolves from MBL into CLL. An expansion in SP is also seen. Although the SP did contain increased cells with stem cell markers, they lacked malignant B-1 cells and did not transfer disease in vivo. Similar to B-1 cells, splenic NZB SP also has decreased miR-15a/16 when compared with C57Bl/6. Exogenous addition of miR-15a/16 to NZB B-1 cells resulted in increased sensitivity to nutlin. CONCLUSION: NZB serve as an excellent model for studying the development and progression of age-associated CLL. NZB SP cells do not seem to contain cancer stem cells, but rather the B-1 stem cell. NZB B-1 chemoresistance may be related  to reduced miR-15a/16 expression."
301	"BACKGROUND: Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are related B-cell cancers that share several clinical and biological features. Both WM and CLL have associated precursor conditions: monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) of immunoglobulin M (IgM) type and monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL), respectively. Recently, a case of MBL with an IgM MGUS was reported, suggesting a close biological relationship between these entities. While much is known about MGUS overall, investigations of IgM MGUS specifically have been fragmentary. METHODS: In this article, we review data on the prevalence, clinical aspects and  natural history of IgM MGUS, and focus on identifying gaps in our understanding of the complex relationships among B-cell malignancies and their precursors. RESULTS: There appears to be marked heterogeneity in the prevalence of IgM MGUS across populations. However, studies have varied in definition, design, laboratory methods, and endpoints. IgM MGUS differs from non-IgM MGUS in certain  respects, including prevalence across racial groups, rate of progression, and pattern of malignant outcomes. There are limited data regarding the coincident occurrence of IgM MGUS and MBL. CONCLUSIONS: Future studies incorporating both protein electrophoresis and flow cytometry are needed to define the underlying spectrum and causes of precursor development, risk factors for progression, and markers that distinguish low- and  high-risk precursor patients."
302	"BACKGROUND: Monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis (MBL) is a preclinical condition characterized by an expansion of clonal B cells in the absence of B lymphocytosis (BALC < 5 × 10(9)/L) in the peripheral blood, without clinical signs, suggestive  of a lymphoproliferative disorder. B cell clonal expansions are also associated with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and they can evolve into lymphoproliferative disorders such as mixed cryoglobulinemia and non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). The relationship between MBL and HCV infection has not been established yet. METHODS: By five-colour flow cytometry, we analyzed 123 HCV positive subjects with diagnosis of chronic hepatitis (94) or cirrhosis (29); 16 of those with cirrhosis had a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. RESULTS: MBL were identified in 35/123 (28.5%), at significantly higher frequency than in the general population. Sixteen/thirty-five were atypical-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) MBL (CD5(+), CD20(bright)), 13/35 were CLL-like MBL (CD5(bright), CD20(dim)), and 6/35 were CD5(-) MBL. Twenty-four/ninety-four (25.5%) patients affected by chronic hepatitis had MBL, whereas 11/29 (37.9%) patients with cirrhosis showed a B cell clone. A biased usage of IGHVgenes similar to HCV-associated NHL was evident. CONCLUSIONS: All three types of MBL can be identified in HCV-infected individuals at a higher frequency than in the general population, and their presence appears  to correlate with a more advanced disease stage. The phenotypic heterogeneity is  reminiscent of the diversity of NHL arising in the context of HCV infection. The  persistence of HCV may be responsible for the dysregulation of the immune system  and in particular of the B cell compartment."
303	"Monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis (MBL) is now recognized as the B-lymphocyte analogue of a monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance. MBL can be the precursor of chronic lymphocytic leukemia or associated with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It may be associated with an autoimmune abnormality or be related to aging (immunosenescence). The combination of available new fluorochrome-conjugated monoclonal antibody reagents, multilaser instrumentation, and improved software tools have led to a new level of multicolor analysis of MBL. Presently, several centers, including the University of Salamanca (Spain), Duke University (Durham, NC), Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN), and the National Cancer Institute (Bethesda, MD) in conjunction with the Genetics and Epidemiology of Familial chronic lymphocytic leukemia Consortium, the Food and Drug Administration (Bethesda, MD), and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (Atlanta, GA) in collaboration with Saint Luke's Hospital (Kansas City, MO), the Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele in Milan (Italy), and Leeds Teaching Hospital (UK) are all actively conducting studies on MBL. This commentary is an updated summary of  the current methods used in these centers. It is important to note the diversity  of use in reagents, instruments, and methods of analysis. Despite this diversity, there is a consensus in what constitutes the diagnosis of MBL and its subtypes. There is also an emerging consensus on what the next investigative steps should be."
305	"BACKGROUND: Individuals with monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) have been identified in clinic outpatients, in unaffected relatives of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and in general populations. MBL and its relationship with CLL have been actively investigated over the last decade. This  report systematically reviews the prevalence of MBL in the context of the populations studied and the evolution of laboratory methods used to define MBL. METHODS: To identify published studies that have assessed the prevalence of MBL,  we systematically searched the MEDLINE databases and consulted with members of the International MBL Study Group. We reviewed the 10 articles that were identified by this process. We abstracted information on study populations, laboratory tests, criteria for designating MBL, and the reported frequencies. RESULTS: Three of the ten studies were published in 2009, three between 2007 and  2008, and four between 2002 and 2004. Reported prevalences varied widely, ranging from 0.12 to 18.2%. This variability was clearly associated with both the laboratory methods and the populations studied. MBL was more common among older individuals and kindred of persons with CLL. The most common MBL subtype was CLL-like MBL. CONCLUSIONS: Large population-based studies of MBL that employ standardized laboratory methods with a consensus case definition are needed to assess prevalence and establish risk factors. These studies should include prospective follow-up of MBL cases to determine the relationship between MBL and CLL. Data from original studies should be reported in sufficient detail to allow future synthesis of information from multiple studies, such as meta-analysis."
306	"BACKGROUND: The pathology and clinical course of patients with CD5+ chronic B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders, excluding those that present with typical chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL) or mantle cell lymphoma, (i.e. CD5+B-CLPD) are poorly defined. METHODS: We studied patients with CD5+B-CLPD to (1) more completely define the clinical features and pathology of CD5+B-CLPD, (2) compare these features to patients presenting with typical CLL, and (3) test the hypothesis that a subset of patients with CD5+B-CLPD could have a unique B-cell malignancy. RESULTS: We identified 229 patients with CD5+B-CLPD. A definitive pathological diagnosis was made in all 61 (27%) CD5+B-CLPD patients with nonbone marrow (BM) biopsy specimens considered adequate for a comprehensive pathological examination. The most common diagnosis among these 61 patients was CLL (44%) followed by the leukemic phase of marginal zone lymphoma (34%), lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (11%), diffuse large B cell lymphoma (8%), and high-grade B cell lymphoma not otherwise specified (2%). In contrast, among 168 patients without a  non-BM tissue biopsy specimen, a specific diagnosis could be made on review of all available data in only 24 (14%) with 144 (86%) remaining "unclassified." CONCLUSIONS: In patients with CD5+B-CLPD, a definitive diagnosis can be made on an adequate non-BM tissue biopsy suggesting that this entity does not include a novel disease. We recommend that all patients with CD5+B-CLPD should have a non-BM tissue biopsy to make a definitive diagnosis prior to initiation of treatment."
307	"BACKGROUND: Richter's syndrome (RS) corresponds to the transformation of chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) into high-grade lymphoma. RS can involve extranodal sites including the gastrointestinal tract, lungs and skin. Cutaneous RS is rare, we describe 4 cases with clinical manifestations, histological and immunohistological patterns, and outcome. METHODS: Clinical data were analyzed and all patients' skin biopsy samples stained with HE for the CD20, CD5, CD3 and CD30 antigens. Epstein-Barr-virus (EBV)-encoded early RNA and clonal rearrangements were also analyzed. RESULTS: The patients' mean age at CLL diagnosis was 57 years (53-62 years), with a male/female sex ratio of 3:1. The transformation to cutaneous RS occurred between 8 and 75 months after initial diagnosis and progressed to a fatal systemic disease in 3 cases, between 24 and 129 months. Cutaneous CLL was associated with earlier transformation in our series and could not be distinguished from RS on clinical grounds alone. All patients had a large-cell infiltrate and clonal rearrangements. CONCLUSIONS: The precise mechanism of RS is unclear, but a role of EBV has been suggested in fludarabine-treated CLL. For all our patients, the diagnosis of transformation was made on the basis of cutaneous localizations and led to intensified CLL treatment."
308	"AIMS: Programmed death-1 (PD-1) is expressed by germinal center-associated helper T-cells and acts as a negative regulator of the immune system. PD-1 is encountered on tumor cells of angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma and is a postulated diagnostic marker in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL/SLL). Recent data suggest prognostic importance of PD-1 in follicular lymphoma (FL). We assessed the diagnostic potential and the prognostic importance of PD-1 in B-cell lymphomas. METHODS: Distribution of PD-1+ lymphocytes in B-cell lymphomas was studied on 403 cases. Correlation with known biologic and clinical key data was performed. Prognostic cut-off scores were determined by receiver operating curve analysis. RESULTS: PD-1+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes were numerous in extranodal marginal zone lymphomas and FL. Their amount decreased from FL grade 1 to grade 3 and to FL with transformation to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. An increased amount of PD-1 tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes above the prognostic cut-off score  (> 2.8%) was a positive prognostic factor of disease-specific survival (DSS) in FL-patients. Five percent of the studied 66 CLL/SLL cases showed unequivocal PD-1 positivity of neoplastic cells. CONCLUSIONS: Increased number of PD-1+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes is associated with significantly improved DSS in FL and may be useful to predict its heterogeneous clinical behavior. PD-1 has probably limited diagnostic value for primary histopathological CLL/SLL diagnostics."
309	"B-CLL is a heterogeneous disease, distinguishing between good and poor prognosis  represents a challenge to hematologists. The present study aimed to assess the relative merit of VEGF as a prognostic factor in CLL and to correlate it with other prognostic factors as CD38 & sP53 in the different stages of the disease. The median values of CD38%, sP53 and VEGF were significantly higher in both high  and intermediate risk subgroups of the modified Rai staging system when compared  to low risk subgroup. There was a statistically significant positive correlation  between CD38% and VEGF in all subgroups. However, positive correlation between VEGF and sP53 was only observed in the high risk subgroup. The strong correlation between CD38 and VEGF in CLL patients, suggests the possibility that angiogenic factors might contribute to the more aggressive clinical behavior of CD38+ CLL. This could provide a rationale for the use of antiangiogenic agents in CD38+ CLL."
310	"MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that act at the post-transcriptional level, regulating protein expression by repressing translation or destabilizing mRNA target. Because of their discovery, microRNAs have been associated with almost every normal cell function, including proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. Several lines of evidence suggest that they have an important role in  normal hematopoiesis as exemplified by the role of mir-155 and mir-150 in the differentiation of B and T lymphocytes, the suppressive role of mir-221 and mir-222 in erythroid differentiation, the inhibitory effect of mir-181 on hematopoietic differentiation and the induction of myeloid differentiation by mir-223. Moreover, they play a role both as oncogenes, probably by a variety of mechanisms, namely through elimination of tumor suppressor proteins, or as tumor  suppressor genes by targeting oncogenic mRNAs. Their aberrant expression has been associated with solid tumors and hematopoietic malignancies as suggested by the frequent deletion of mir-15a and mir-16-1 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the increased levels of mir-155 in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas and the increased levels of mir-181 in acute myeloid leukemia M1 and M2. The purpose of this review is to summarize current knowledge on the role of microRNAs in normal hematopoiesis and hematopoietic malignancies and, moreover, to highlight their role as potential therapeutic tools."
311	"Milatuzumab is a new immunotherapeutic agent targeting CD74, a membrane protein preferentially expressed in hematopoietic cancers and some solid tumors. Broad expression and fast internalization makes CD74 an ideal target for cancer therapy. We reviewed published articles about CD74 and milatuzumab. We present a  comprehensive review of CD74 functions and provide explanation of milatuzumab antitumor effects. This review describes CD74 protein biology with the emphasis on the role of CD74 in tumor survival and its new role in regulation of the Fas death receptor. The development of CD74 targeting therapies to induce tumor regression and cancer cell apoptosis is described and results of clinical trials  are discussed. Milatuzumab shows selective binding and rapid internalization into CD74-positive cancer cells. Milatuzumab with and without conjugated toxins synergizes with other chemotherapeutic agents and elicits significant antitumor effects in mice. In a Phase I trial, milatuzumab showed no severe adverse effects in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma and it stabilized the disease in some patients for up to 12 weeks. Ongoing trials testing different treatment schedules of milatuzumab in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and multiple myeloma indicate that milatuzumab shows no severe adverse effects in humans."
315	"Modern treatment approaches such as chemoimmunotherapy (e.g., fludarabine/cyclophosphamide/rituximab or FCR) are highly effective in the majority of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. However, there remains a small but challenging subgroup of patients who show ultra high-risk genetics (17p deletion, TP53 mutation) and/or poor response to chemoimmunotherapy. The median life expectancy of these patients is below 2 to 3 years with standard regimens. Accordingly, CLL with the 17p deletion (and likely also with sole TP53 mutation)  should be treated with alternative strategies. While p53 defects appear to play a central role in our understanding of this ultra high-risk group, at least half of the cases will not be predictable based on existing prognostic models. Current treatment approaches for patients with p53 defects or poor response to chemoimmunotherapy should rely on agents acting independently of p53, such as alemtuzumab, lenalidomide, flavopiridol, and a growing number of novel compounds  (or combinations thereof) currently available in clinical trials. Poor survival times of patients with ultra high-risk CLL suggest that eligible patients should  be offered consolidation with reduced-intensity allogeneic stem-cell transplantation or experimental approaches in clinical trials."
316	"Current research in lymphoma is focused on two areas of lymphoma biology-the signal transduction pathways used to maintain the growth of malignant lymphocytes and the role of the tumor microenvironment in lymphoma growth and survival. This  review focuses on three signaling pathways: the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin (PI3K/mTOR) pathway, the B-cell receptor/spleen tyrosine kinase (BCR/Syk) pathway, and the protein kinase C-beta  (PKC-β) pathway, known to be important to lymphoma cells. The mTOR inhibitors temsirolimus and everolimus have demonstrated antitumor activity in all types of  lymphoma, the Syk inhibitor fostamatinib has activity in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and the PKC-β inhibitor enzastaurin is being used as consolidation therapy after remission in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. This review discusses the biology behind the development of each new agent and the results of initial clinical trials. The goal is to provide the hematologist/oncologist background information on these new agents and understand their current and potential role in the management of patients."
317	"A 55-year-old man presented with fever, night sweats, and weight loss of about 20 lbs. in the prior 6 months. Physical examination revealed multiple cervical, axillary, and inguinal lymphadenopathy. The spleen was enlarged. A complete blood count revealed leukocytosis with absolute lymphocytosis: 30,000/μL. Peripheral blood-flow cytometric analysis showed a clonal lymphocyte population with immunophenotypes positive for CD5, CD20(dim), and monotypic kappa light chain. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis revealed del(11q22.3), but negative for t(11:14). What should be used to treat his chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) disease?"
318	"Younger patients (defined as patients younger than 50-55 years of age) represent  a small group of newly diagnosed patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, accounting only for 10% to 20% of newly diagnosed cases. However, once these patients become symptomatic and require treatment, their life expectancy is significantly reduced. Therapeutic approaches for younger patients should be directed at improving survival by achieving a complete remission and, where possible, eradicating minimal residual disease. Chemoimmunotherapy combinations carry the highest response rates and are commonly offered to younger patients. Additional strategies that should be considered for younger patients include early referral for stem-cell transplantation and clinical trials of consolidation therapy to eliminate minimal residual disease."
319	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is one of the most common lymphoid malignancies and is characterized by a tremendously variable clinical course. Additionally, whereas the median age at diagnosis is 72 years, CLL is diagnosed with increasing frequency in younger patients. Given the toxicities associated with currently available therapies, being able to predict which patients will need treatment could play a significant role in preserving bone marrow function and reducing morbidity and mortality. While a great many prognostic markers have  been identified that predict outcomes for patients with CLL. Learning how to use  these prognostic markers to provide patient care is more difficult."
320	"Significant advancements in the care of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have occurred over the past decade. Nonetheless, CLL remains incurable outside of allogeneic transplantation. CLL is the most common leukemia  in the United States and Europe, and new treatments and therapeutic strategies are clearly needed. To address this need, the pathogenesis of CLL has been an area of intense ongoing investigation. These international efforts illuminate a complex biology that is reliant on the interplay of inherited, environmental, and host factors. This broad review will discuss the recent advances in our understanding of CLL biology including the elucidation of inherited and acquired  genetic changes; the role of the B-cell receptor and B-cell receptor signaling; CLL cell kinetics; and the interactions in the microenvironment between CLL cells, other immune cells, and stromal elements. This improved understanding of disease pathogenesis is facilitating the development of novel therapeutic treatment strategies."
321	"Renal failure due to leukemic infiltration of kidney in chronic lymphocytic leukemia is an extremely rare condition. The authors report a case of a 59-year-old white female, with a past medical history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with 2 years of evolution without medical therapy, admitted with nonoliguric acute renal failure needing dialysis. Renal biopsy showed extensive small lymphocytes' infiltration in the cortical interstitium by CLL cells. Cyclophosphamide and prednisolone were started and 1 month later changed to fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide with improvement of renal function. Although renal failure due to leukemic infiltration has been described in many cases of acute leukemia, only 11 cases of renal failure due to CLL cells' infiltration have been described in the literature. Renal histology is an extremely important  tool to confirm diagnosis."
322	"AIM: To investigate the genetics of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). MATERIALS AND METHODS: In 56 (7%) out of 800 CLL patients with concomitant malignant hematological disease, 51 families and 141 cases were ascertained. RESULT: 106 cases (75%) of CLL, 27 cases (19%) of nonCLL and 8 cases (6%) of myeloproliferative disorders. Paternal disease was transmitted primarily to the youngest sons in the sibship while maternal disease was transmitted equally to all sibs, demonstrated by means of matrix conjugation and confirmed with Cox regression on parity and birth order (maternal-offspring combination: relative risk (RR), 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.47 (0.89 - 2.43), p=0.12, compared with paternal-offspring combination: RR=3.25, 95% CI=(1.57-6.72), p<0.001). The B-cell expression in familial and sporadic CLL was indistinguishable. CONCLUSION: Parental genomic imprinting is pointed out as one possible mechanism  behind this non-Mendelian genomic output."
323	"The past 15 years have witnessed an enormous effort in studying B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. A great number of researches brought significant novel information and a better understanding of the natural history of this disease. This mini review will focus on the studies related to the Immunoglobulin variable (IgV) genes rearrangements that compose the B-cell receptor (BcR) of the leukemic clones. These studies have defined a role for the antigen(s) in the paths that lead to leukemic clone generation/expansion and underscore the informative value  represented by BcR analyses."
324	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have benefited from the introduction of targeted therapy for leukemia. Rituximab (a chimeric murine-derived monoclonal antibody that targets CD20 on lymphocytes) was the first monoclonal antibody to affect the natural course of this disease. Several reports have shown modest single-agent activity in patients with CLL. However, the best results come from the combination of this agent with chemotherapy; a significant benefit has been seen with the use of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide,  and rituximab (FCR). The addition of rituximab to chemotherapy boosted overall response rates, complete response rates and prolonged progression free survival.  Recent data showed an overall survival benefit with FCR. Other combinations including bendamustine and rituximab appear more effective than bendamustine alone, while combining rituximab with other types of agents also appears to improve response rates. This type of relatively nontoxic regimen is being investigated in elderly patients who may not tolerate standard combination chemoimmunotherapies."
325	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an indolent but incurable disease. Despite  the improvement of the available therapies, the management of heavily-treated CLL patients represents a challenge for modern practitioners. Ofatumumab is a second-generation, fully human anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that has shown activity in CLL patients who have failed very effective therapies such as fludarabine, alemtuzumab and rituximab. Potential benefits of ofatumumab include  powerful complement-dependent cytotoxicity, less immunogenicity, faster infusions and activity in resistant CLL patients. Recently, the FDA has approved ofatumumab for the treatment of CLL patients who have failed fludarabine and alemtuzumab-based regimens. The aim of this review is to summarize the current knowledge regarding pharmacology, mechanism of action, pre-clinical and clinical  development, and the role of ofatumumab for the treatment of CLL patients who have failed previous therapies. Further research is necessary to further define the role of ofatumumab in the treatment of CLL."
326	"BACKGROUND: Patients undergoing coronary artery surgery associated with malignant disease are high-risk patients. The surgical strategy among these patients remains controversial. We present our experience of using a two-staged surgical strategy of managing coronary artery disease using off-pump bypass followed by tumor management. PATIENTS AND METHODS: During a six-year period from 2002 to 2007, 350 patients underwent myocardial revascularization using off-pump bypass. Among these patients, associated malignant disease was found in six patients (1.7%). Two of them had papillary carcinoma of the bladder, one patient had chronic lymphocytic  leukemia, and the rest suffer from carcinoma affecting the prostate, colon, and right lung. Their mean age was 54 years. Their data was evaluated. Patients were  followed up to evaluate their symptoms and progress of their disease. RESULTS: All patients were managed successfully. Complete revascularization was achieved in all patients except one due to small nongraftable vessels. The mean number of grafts was 1.8 +/- 0.8. There was no evidence of postoperative infraction or stroke. The mean hospital stay was 5 +/- 1.1 days. Management of cancer was done during the same hospital admission in two patients with bladder cancer. The rest had a mean interval of 6.6 +/- 5.4 days. Two patients underwent  surgery in the form of left hemicolectomy and right lower lobectomy. The rest had chemotherapy as a sole treatment. All patients were followed up completely for a  period of 12 to 84 months (mean 39.2 +/- 26.7 months). We had no late mortality.  All patients remained asymptomatic except one, who had angina of class III and had recurrence of her bladder tumor, which necessitated two sessions of endoscopic resection. CONCLUSION: We believe that staged operation to treat coronary artery disease and malignancy can be performed safely. The use of off-pump technique to revascularize the myocardium can be performed without any complications."
327	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by the accumulation of malignant, apoptosis-resistant B CD19(+)/CD5(+) cells. Populations of CLL cells are heterogeneous and consist primarily of quiescent cells with a minor subset of dividing cells. In this study the efficacy of a first-line in vivo therapy was compared with treatment by R-roscovitine (ROSC) alone or by purine analogues (cladribine and fludarabine) combined with maphosphamide for 14 CLL patients under ex vivo conditions. ROSC induced the highest reduction in numbers of living B-cells, coinciding with an increased rate of apoptosis. After 24 h the percentage of apoptotic cells in ROSC-treated cultures was markedly higher than in untreated controls. ROSC also induced strong activation of the apoptosome and  effector caspases in CLL cells. During progression of apoptosis the plasma membrane became permeable, resulting in the release of activated caspases into the culture medium. Leukemic cells were more sensitive to ROSC than normal mononuclear cells. Treatment with ROSC did not affect the activating phosphorylation of CDK2 or CDK1. However, ROSC decreased phosphorylation of survivin, CDK7, and RNA-Pol II, resulting in inhibition of transcription elongation and subsequent down-regulation of levels of anti-apoptotic factors, thereby facilitating apoptosis. Unlike ROSC, two other purine analogues barely affected the cellular levels of anti-apoptotic proteins and more weakly activated effector caspases. In addition, the efficacies of in vivo and ex vivo therapies were found to be correlated. Marked between-patient differences in expression patterns of apoptosis-regulating factors in CLL cells were observed, explaining the variations in patients' sensitivity to therapy."
328	"Splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SP-MZL) is a rare low-grade B-cell neoplasm that  often shows leukemic manifestation. Less than 20% of cases of SP-MZL express CD5. We analyzed 11 cases of CD5-positive SP-MZL with leukemic manifestation. The clinical characteristics of these cases did not differ from those of CD5-negative SP-MZL. Flow cytometry revealed positive results as follows : CD3, 0/9 ; CD5, 11/11 ; CD10, 0/11 ; CD11c, 4/10, CD13, 5/11 ; CD19, 11/11 ; CD20, 10/11 ; CD21,  4/4 ; CD22, 7/7 ; CD23, 5/10 ; CD25, 8/11 ; FMC7, 5/7 ; κ type 6/9, and λ type 2/9. All 3 cases with monoclonal γ-globulinemia expressed CD13. Resected spleen exhibited a proliferation of neoplastic cells in white pulp in all 8 splenectomy  patients and a marginal pattern was detected in 5 patients. Only 2 cases showed involvement of red pulp. Immunohistochemistry showed that the lymphoma cells were positive for CD5, CD20, and BCL-2 and negative for CD3, CD10, cyclin D1, BCL-6, and MUM-1 in all 11 cases. These results suggest that CD5-positive SP-MZL differs from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, that CD13 expression is found in about  half of CD5-positive SP-MZL cases, and that CD5-positive SP-MZL may be related to memory B-cell neoplasm or plasma cell differentiation."
329	"BACKGROUND: Although no cure exists for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), treatment can reduce morbidity and/or improve survival in advanced disease. Identification of patients in an early disease state allows monitoring and treatment as soon as appropriate. We were unable to find previous reports of early CLL disease presenting with gynecologic symptoms. This report seeks to alert gynecologists of their potential role in identifying CLL patients. CASE: A 76-year-old woman presented with rectovaginal pressure. Cervical cone biopsy showed a lymphoproliferative process. Peripheral blood flow cytometry confirmed a diagnosis of early-stage CLL. The patient remains asymptomatic and is currently monitored for disease progression. CONCLUSION: Early CLL can present with localized gynecologic symptoms or cervical lesions. The recognition of early disease can assure optimal treatment."
332	"OBJECTIVE: To present a case of metastatic renal cell carcinoma to the parotid gland occurring 19 years after nephrectomy with review of literature. STUDY DESIGN: Case report and literature review. METHODS: Literature review of cases of metastatic renal cell carcinoma to the parotid gland and discussion of a recent representative case within our tertiary  care health system. RESULTS: We present a case of an 82 year old male who presented with a 18 month history of progressive right parotid enlargement. His past medical history is notable for renal cell carcinoma status post partial nephrectomy in 1990, followed by completion nephrectomy 15 years later. He also has a history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, which has not been treated. He complained of some pain symptoms, but no signs of facial paralysis. Fine needle aspiration was non-diagnostic. The patient underwent a total parotidectomy with facial nerve preservation, and final pathology was consistent with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type. Based on our literature review we believe this to be  the longest disease free interval of renal cell carcinoma preceding a metastatic  lesion to the parotid gland."
334	"The use of nucleoside analog-based chemo-immunotherapeutic regimens over the last decade has significantly improved outcomes in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Nonetheless, virtually all patients with CLL relapse from chemoimmmunotherapy and current available therapies are not curative. Identifying therapies that effectively eliminate CLL cells and lack immunesuppression represent an exciting new therapeutic approach. IMiDs are a class of immunomodulating drugs that increase T-cell and NK-cell directed killing of tumor cells. The first generation molecule is thalidomide followed by a second generation molecule lenalidomide that lacks neurotoxicity and is being explored more extensively in clinical trials. Lenalidomide has been shown to benefit patients with multiple myeloma, myelodysplastic syndromes, and lymphoma. Initial  reports in patients with relapsed and refractory CLL have shown promising responses. In a subset of patients with CLL complete responses have been noted. Subsequent studies, however, have suggested that this class of drug can also have serious and potentially life-threatening side effects including myelosuppression, tumor flare reaction and in a small subset of patients tumor lysis syndrome. Tumor flare with both thalidomide and lenalidomide appear to be disease specific  to CLL and may reflect clinical manifestation of CLL tumor cell activation. As a  consequence of these disease specific effects, the optimal safe dose of lenalidomide in CLL remains to be determined but appears to be lower than that tolerated in other B-cell malignancies. To date, biomarkers for response remain poorly defined and the relationship of clinical benefit to tumor flare is uncertain. This review examines the existing literature on the use of IMiDs in patients with CLL and provides suggestions for future research in this area."
338	"Using array-based CGH, we identified 2p gain in 22/78 (28%) untreated Binet stages B/C CLL, which was the second most frequent copy number change after 13q deletion. It never occurred as a sole abnormality and was associated with other changes (6q deletion; 1p gain). The region of 2p gain frequently included two oncogenes, REL and MYCN. All patients with gain of REL were unmutated for IGHV (p=0.03). Gain of MYCN was associated with increased mRNA expression (p=0.005), suggesting a pathogenic role for MYCN. Gain of 2p appears to be a marker of progression and may contribute to the poor prognosis."
339	"Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) is a preclinical hematologic syndrome characterized by small accumulations of CD5(+) B lymphocytes. Most MBL share phenotypic characteristics with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Although some MBL progress to CLL, most MBL have apparently limited potential for progression to CLL, particularly those MBL with normal absolute B-cell counts ('low-count' MBL). Most CLL are monoclonal and it is not known whether MBL are monoclonal or oligoclonal; this is important because it is unclear whether MBL represent indolent CLL or represent a distinct premalignant precursor before the development of CLL. We used flow cytometry analysis and sorting to determine immunophenotypic characteristics, clonality and molecular features of MBL from familial CLL kindreds. Single-cell analysis indicated four of six low-count MBL consisted of two or more unrelated clones; the other two MBL were monoclonal. 87% of low-count MBL clones had mutated immunoglobulin genes, and no immunoglobulin heavy-chain rearrangements of V(H) family 1 were observed. Some MBL were diversified, clonally related populations with evidence of antigen drive. We conclude that although low-count MBL share many phenotypic characteristics with CLL, many MBL are oligoclonal. This supports a model for step-wise development of MBL into CLL."
340	"ZAP-70 is a key signaling molecule in T cells. It couples the antigen-activated T-cell receptor to downstream signaling pathways. Its expression in leukemic B-cells derived from a subgroup of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is associated with an aggressive course of the disease. However, its implication for the pathogenesis of aggressive CLL is still unclear. In this study, we show that the expression of ZAP-70 enhances the signals associated with the B-cell receptor, recruiting protein kinase C-betaII (PKC-betaII) into lipid raft domains. Subsequently, PKC-betaII is activated and shuttles from the plasma  membrane to the mitochondria. We unravel that the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 and its antagonistic BH3-protein Bim(EL) are putative substrates for PKC-betaII. PKC-betaII-mediated phosphorylation of Bcl-2 augments its antiapoptotic function  by increasing its ability to sequester more pro-apoptotic Bim(EL.) In addition, the phosphorylation of Bim(EL) by PKC-betaII leads to its proteasomal degradation. These changes confer leukemic cells to a more antiapoptotic state with aggressiveness of the disease. Most importantly, these molecular changes can be therapeutically targeted with the small molecule inhibitor Enzastaurin. We provide evidence that this compound is highly active in leukemic cells and augments the cytotoxic effects of standard chemotherapeutic drugs."
341	"RhoH is a hematopoietic-specific, GTPase-deficient member of the Rho GTPase family that functions as a regulator of thymocyte development and T-cell receptor signaling by facilitating localization of zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 (ZAP70) to the immunological synapse. Here we investigated the function of RhoH in the B-cell lineage. B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling was intact in Rhoh(-/-) mice. Because RhoH interacts with ZAP70, which is a prognostic factor in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we analyzed the mRNA levels of RhoH in primary human CLL cells and showed a 2.3-fold higher RhoH expression compared with normal B cells. RhoH expression in CLL positively correlated with the protein levels of ZAP70. Deletion of Rhoh in a murine model of CLL (Emu-TCL1(Tg)  mice) significantly delayed the accumulation of CD5(+)IgM(+) leukemic cells in peripheral blood and the leukemic burden in the peritoneal cavity, bone marrow and spleen of Rhoh(-/-) mice compared with their Rhoh(+/+) counterparts. Phosphorylation of AKT and ERK in response to BCR stimulation was notably decreased in Emu-TCL1(Tg);Rhoh(-/-) splenocytes. These data suggest that RhoH has a function in the progression of CLL in a murine model and show RhoH expression is altered in human primary CLL samples."
344	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is uniquely characterized by the existence of  subsets of cases with quasi-identical, 'stereotyped' B-cell receptors (BCRs). Herein we investigate this stereotypy in 2662 patients with CLL, the largest series yet, using purpose-built bioinformatics methods based on sequence pattern  discovery. Besides improving the identification of 'stereotyped' cases, we demonstrate that CLL actually consists of two different categories, based on the  BCR repertoire, with important biological and ontogenetic differences. The first  ( approximately 30% of cases) shows a very restricted repertoire and is characterized by BCR stereotypy (clustered cases), whereas the second includes cases with heterogeneous BCRs (nonclustered cases). Eleven major CLL clusters were identified with antigen-binding sites defined by just a few critically positioned residues, regardless of the actual immunoglobulin (IG) variable gene used. This situation is closely reminiscent of the receptors expressed by cells participating in innate immune responses. On these grounds, we argue that whereas CLL cases with heterogeneous BCRs likely derive from the conventional B-cell pool, cases with stereotyped BCRs could derive from progenitor cells evolutionarily adapted to particular antigenic challenges, perhaps intermediate between a true innate immune system and the conventional adaptive B-cell immune system, functionally similar to what has been suggested previously for mouse B1 cells."
346	"CD4(+) CD25(+) regulatory T cells are expanded in solid and hematological malignancies including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Several cytokines and  co-stimulatory molecules are required for generation, survival and maintenance of their suppressive effect. We and others have shown direct cytotoxic effect of the novel common gamma chain cytokine interleukin (IL)-21 on primary B cells from CLL patients. Since members of this family of cytokines are known to exhibit their effects on diverse immune cells, we have examined the effects of IL-21 on CLL patient derived regulatory T cell (Treg) induction, expansion and the inhibitory  effect on natural killer cells in vitro. We demonstrate here the expression of IL-21 receptor in CD4(+)CD25(High) regulatory cells from CLL patients. In contrast to IL-2, the IL-21 cytokine failed to mediate expansion of regulatory T  cells or induced expression of Foxp3 in CD4(+)CD25(Intermediate) or CD4(+)CD25(Dim/-) T cells in whole blood derived from CLL patients. Interestingly, in contrast to their differential effects on expansion of the CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+)T cells, IL-2 and IL-21 exhibited a redundant role in Treg mediated suppression of NK cell mediated antibody dependent cytotoxicity function. Given the infusion related toxicities and pro-survival effect of IL-2 in CLL, these studies provide a rationale to explore IL-21 as an alternate gamma  chain cytokine in CLL therapy."
349	"The present study was undertaken to provide more information on nucleoli in lymphocytes of B - chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The computer assisted nucleolar  and cytoplasmic RNA image densitometry, reflecting the nucleolar and cytoplasmic  RNA concentration at the single cell level, demonstrated a remarkable stability during the differentiation and maturation of B- lymphocytes. In contrast, as it was expected, the nucleolar diameter during the lymphocytic development markedly  decreased. Thus the nucleolar RNA content of leukemic B-lymphocytes was apparently related to the nucleolar size. In both immature and mature lymphocytes, the cytostatic treatment increased the incidence of micronucleoli, which represent the "inactive" type of nucleoli. However, the decreased values of the nucleolar diameter were statistically significant only in mature lymphocytes  of treated patients. On the other hand, despite such observation, it must be mentioned that "large active" and "ring shaped resting" nucleoli were still present in immature and mature lymphocytes after the cytostatic therapy and such  cells might represent a potential pool of proliferating cells. As it is generally accepted "large active nucleoli" with multiple fibrillar centers are known to be  characteristic for proliferating cells. "Ring shaped resting nucleoli" are present in sleeping cells, which may be stimulated to return to the cell cycle and to proliferate again. In addition, the nucleolar RNA distribution also indicated that Gumprecht ghosts mostly originated from mature lymphocytes. Increased ratio of the nucleolar to cytoplasmic RNA density in Gumprecht ghosts or apoptotic cells and apoptotic bodies of the lymphocytic origin was related to  the decreased cytoplasmic RNA concentration. The increased nucleolar size together with the markedly decreased cytoplasmic RNA concentration characteristic for Gumprecht ghosts just reflected the spreading of lymphocytes during smear preparations. In apoptotic cells or bodies of the lymphocytic origin, the "frozen" nucleolar RNA concentration accompanied by a reduced RNA concentration in the cytoplasm exhibited a remarkable similarity to the apoptotic process induced in vitro by the cytostatic treatment.KEYWORDS: B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia; lymphocytes; nucleolar classes; size; nucleolar RNA image density -concentration."
350	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) represents a heterogeneous disease with a very variable outcome. The reliable prognosis of this disease at the time  of initial diagnosis is difficult to predict. The purpose of this preliminary study was to utilize the nucleolar morphology and to investigate the incidence of main nucleolar types in leukemic lymphocytes in B-CLL patients to assess their possible predictive value for the disease outcome, in correlation with immunophenotype parameters. The evaluation of nucleolar morphology of pathologic  lymphocytes was performed at diagnosis and during the course of disease. Median follow up period of patients was 16.4 months (range from 2 to 32 months) from diagnosis. The nucleoli were visualized by a simple cytochemical demonstration of RNA and the proportion of main nucleolar types in pathologic lymphocyte population infiltrating bone marrow of 84 patients suffering from B-CLL was analyzed. The presence of ring shaped and compact nucleoli in leukemic lymphocytes divided patients into two subgroups with different outcome of the disease. Malignant lymphocytes of the majority of patients (Group 1, 71 patients, 84.5%) mostly contained ring shaped nucleoli. These patients were in stable phase and did not require any treatment during the follow up. The population of leukemic cells of a small group of B-CLL patients (Group 2, 13 patients, 15.4%) was characterized by the presence of various proportions of pathologic lymphocytes with one large compact nucleolus.Different response to the therapy discriminated the B-CLL patients whose leukemic lymphocytes revealed evident compact nucleoli at presentation, to next two subsets. Four of these patients (Group 2, 4/13, 31%) appeared to be resistant to chemotherapy, others (9/13, 69%) showed response to therapy, though the response time was variable. Leukemic cells with compact nucleolus morphologically resembled prolymphocytes, but hematologically and immunophenotypically did not fulfill the diagnostic criteria  for prolymphocyte population. None of our B-CLL patients had the signs of transformation to prolymphocytic or other type of B cell neoplasms during the follow up. Our results indicate the possibility of relationship between the presence of malignant lymphocytes with compact nucleoli and unfavorable outcome in patients with B-CLL. The simplicity and utility of the nucleolar test as a possible prognostic parameter may help to identify the subset of patients with early B-CLL disease that will run a more progressive course."
351	"Telomere length was evaluated by terminal repeat fragment method in 66 previously untreated patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) to ascertain whether telomere shortening was associated with genomic aberrations, immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgVH) mutational status, CD38 and ZAP-70 expression, and telomerase activity. Chromosomal aberrations were present in peripheral blood cells of 73% patients (48/66), no difference in telomere length  between patients with good and intermediate prognosis according to cytogenetics was found. Association between telomere length and IgVH mutational status, ZAP-70 and CD38 expression was proved as significantly shorter telomeres in patients with unmutated IgVH status (p=0.01) and ZAP-70 positivity (p=0.01) and CD38 positivity (p=0.05) were detected. Telomerase activity was positive in 11 patients out of 21 examined, correlation between telomere length and telomerase activity was found (p=0.05). Telomere length and telomerase activity in combination with other prognostic parameters complete the risk profile of B-CLL patients and might serve for an easy decision on optimal treatment strategy.KEYWORDS: B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia, telomere length, telomerase activity, chromosomal aberrations, prognosis."
352	"On April 19, 2010, the European Commission issued a conditional marketing authorization valid throughout the European Union (EU) for ofatumumab (Arzerra®;  Glaxo Group Ltd, Greenford, Middlesex, U.K.). The decision was based on the favorable opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use recommending a conditional marketing authorization for ofatumumab for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in patients refractory to fludarabine and alemtuzumab. A conditional marketing authorization means that additional data to confirm the benefit-risk balance of ofatumumab are awaited. The active substance of Arzerra® is ofatumumab, a monoclonal antibody medicinal product (ATC code L01XC10). The recommended dose is 300 mg of atumumab for the first infusion and 2,000 mg of atumumab for all subsequent infusions. The infusion schedule is eight consecutive weekly infusions, followed 4-5 weeks later by four consecutive monthly (i.e., every 4 weeks) infusions. Ofatumumab targets CD20, a cell surface marker of B lymphocytes, which is followed by cell lysis via complement-dependent cytotoxicity and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. The benefit of ofatumumab is the control of CLL in patients who are refractory to both fludarabine and alemtuzumab, which was indicated by a high response rate. The most common side effects are infections and infusion reactions. The objective of this paper is to summarize the scientific review of the application leading to approval in the EU. The detailed scientific assessment report and product information, including the summary of product characteristics, are available on the EMA website (http://www.ema.europa.eu)."
354	"Ofatumumab, a novel humanized monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody, was recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of fludarabine and alemtuzumab refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Ofatumumab effectively induces complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) in vitro, and recent studies demonstrated that ofatumumab also effectively mediates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Pharmacokinetic studies indicated that increased exposure to the antibody correlated with improved clinical outcome in CLL. Thus, pharmacogenomics may be important in identifying which patients are more likely to respond to ofatumumab therapy, although such studies have not yet been performed. Patients with the high-affinity FCGR3a 158 V/V polymorphism may be more likely to respond to therapy, if ADCC is the primary in vivo mechanism of action of ofatumumab. Patients with increased expression of the complement defense proteins CD55 and CD59 may be less likely to respond if ofatumumab works  in vivo primarily via CDC. Patients with increased metabolism and clearance of ofatumumab may have lower exposure and be less likely to respond clinically. Thus, pharmacogenomics may determine the responsiveness of patients to ofatumumab therapy."
355	"The composite lymphoma (CL) is defined by the presence in the same tissue or organ of two distinct histological aspects of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), or NHL and Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL). The definition of the CL has evolved, requesting the identification of the immunophenotypic pattern and clonal distinct aspects for the two-lymphoproliferative lesions. We present a case of a 73-year-old farmer who presented with B-symptoms and multiple adenomegaly. The biopsy of a left cervical lymph node reveal a CL: a histological and immunophenotypic aspect  of HL-mixed cellularity (CD15+, CD30+, CD20-) and a diffuse small cell infiltrate which meet the criteria for B-CLL (CD20+, CD23+, and CD5+). The lymphocytes in peripheral blood over 15 000/mm(3) and marrow infiltrate with small lymphocytes also sustain the B-CLL diagnosis. The relationship between the two lymphoproliferations is discussed reported to the case above, but also considering the literature data. In most of the cases the two proliferative processes are clonal related which means they have a commune lymphoid progenitor, pre-GC or early-GC with individual detachment and transit through GC (also, the afferent related processes). It is also possible that the two proliferations, which form the composite lesion to have different cellular origins, possibility sustained by the analysis of the IgH rearrangements and of the somatic mutations  identified in the two clones. The EBV-role in HL-pathogeny is related to the way  of salvage or/and initiation of a clonal process in a GC-cell which has major deletions in the variable part of IgH."
356	"AIM: to analyze the efficacy of RFC (rituximab, fludarabine, and cyclophosphan),  FCM (fludarabine, cyclophosphan, and mitoxantrone), and FC (fludarabine and cyclophosphan) treatment programs in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in an open-labeled comparative controlled investigation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The paper presents the authors' results of treatment in patients with progressive CLL in 2002 to 2007. The study included 229 patients, of them 78 patients received the RFC program, 72 had the FCM program, and 79 had  the FC one. RESULTS: With the use of RFC, a clinically significant therapeutic effect was obtained in 96% of the patients, a complete remission (CR) was in 80% of the primary patients and in 53% of the pretreated patients. When the FCM program was  applied, a positive response was noted in 93% of the patients, CR was seen in 75  and 42% of the primary and pretreated patients, respectively. In the treatment of FC, the total effect was 80%, CR was in 41 and 14% of the primary and pretreated  patients, respectively. CONCLUSION: Comparative analysis of an objective response to therapy has indicated that the effectiveness of the RFC significantly exceeds that of the FCM and FC programs, without enhancing toxicity, which allows he RFC regimen to be regarded as the program of choice in therapy for CLL."
357	"Deletion of 13q14.3 and a candidate gene KCNRG (potassium channel regulating gene) is the most frequent chromosomal abnormality in B-cell chronic lymphocytic  leukemia and is a common finding in multiple myeloma (MM). KCNRG protein may interfere with the normal assembly of the K+ channel proteins causing the suppression of Kv currents. We aimed to examine possible role of KCNRG haploinsufficiency in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and MM cells. We performed detailed genomic analysis of the KCNRG locus; studied effects of the stable overexpression of KCNRG isoforms in RPMI-8226, HL-60, and LnCaP cells; and evaluated relative expression of its transcripts in various human lymphomas. Three MM cell lines and 35 CLL PBL samples were screened for KCNRG mutations. KCNRG exerts growth suppressive and pro-apoptotic effects in HL-60, LnCaP, and RPMI-8226 cells. Direct sequencing of KCNRG exons revealed point mutation delT in RPMI-8226 cell line. Levels of major isoform of KCNRG mRNA are lower in DLBL lymphomas compared to normal PBL samples, while levels of its minor mRNA are decreased across the broad range of the lymphoma types. The haploinsufficiency of KCNRG might be relevant to the progression of CLL and MM at least in a subset of  patients."
358	"y We report preliminary results of efficacious clinical application of a new immunological method with the use of biochips for diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This method has been developed by the authors to detect a wide range of cell surface antigens. We compared the amount of cells expressing certain antigens with clinical properties of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Higher amounts of CD9, CD21, CD31, CD71, CD38 positive lymphocytes were shown to occur in case of favorable course of the disease."
359	"Fludarabine is an antineoplastic agent used in the treatment of hematological malignancies, particularly chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and indolent B-cell lymphoma. Because of its immunosuppressive effects, fludarabine has been added to reduced intensity conditioning regimens. The oral formulation of fludarabine has  become widely available. Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that an oral dose of  40 mg/m(2)/d would provide systemic drug exposure similar to the standard intravenous (IV) dose of 25 mg/m(2)/d. The oral dose can be taken once daily without any dietary restrictions. Dose adjustments are mandatory in patients with renal impairment to avoid increased toxicity. Several noncomparative trials in previously untreated and treated patients with CLL have shown that treatment with the oral formulation demonstrates similar efficacy compared to historical control groups treated with the IV formulation. The tolerability profile of oral fludarabine seems similar to that of the IV formulation. Myelosuppression and infectious complications are the most frequently reported adverse events. Gastrointestinal toxicity is more frequent with the oral formulation, but is usually of mild or moderate severity. Although oral fludarabine makes treatment more convenient, health care workers must be aware of the compliance behavior of  each patient."
360	"Deletion of TP53 gene, under routine assessment by fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis, connects with the worst prognosis in chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (CLL). The presence of isolated TP53 mutation (without deletion) is associated with reduced survival in CLL patients. It is unclear how these abnormalities are selected and what their mutual proportion is. We used methodologies with similar sensitivity for the detection of deletions (interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization) and mutations (yeast functional analysis) and analyzed a large consecutive series of 400 CLL patients; a subset of p53-wild-type cases (n = 132) was screened repeatedly during disease course. The  most common type of TP53 inactivation, ie, mutation accompanied by deletion of the remaining allele, occurred in 42 patients (10.5%). Among additional defects,  the frequency of the isolated TP53 mutation (n = 20; 5%) and the combination of 2 or more mutations on separate alleles (n = 5; 1.3%) greatly exceeded the sole deletion (n = 3; 0.8%). Twelve patients manifested defects during repeated investigation; in all circumstances the defects involved mutation and occurred after therapy. Monoallelic defects had a negative impact on survival and impaired in vitro response to fludarabine. Mutation analysis of the TP53 should be performed before each treatment initiation because novel defects may be selected  by previous therapies."
361	"Activation of lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) by chemokines is fine-tuned by inside-out signaling mechanisms responsible for integrin-mediated adhesion modulation. In the present study, we investigated the possibility of qualitative variability of signaling mechanisms controlling LFA-1 activation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. We pursued a multiplexed comparative analysis of the role of the recently described chemokine-triggered rho-signaling  module in human normal versus CLL B-lymphocytes. We found that the rho-module of  LFA-1 affinity triggering is functionally conserved in normal B-lymphocytes. In contrast, in malignant B-lymphocytes isolated from patients with B-CLL, the role  of the rho-module was not maintained, showing remarkable differences and variability. Specifically, RhoA and phospholipase D1 were crucially involved in LFA-1 affinity triggering by CXCL12 in all analyzed patients. In contrast, Rac1 and CDC42 involvement displayed a consistent patient-by-patient variability, with a group of patients showing LFA-1 affinity modulation totally independent of Rac1 and CDC42 signaling activity. Finally, phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase  isoform 1gamma (PIP5KC) was found without any regulatory role in all patients. The data imply that the neoplastic progression may completely bypass the regulatory role of Rac1, CDC42, and PIP5KC, and show a profound divergence in the signaling mechanisms controlling integrin activation in normal versus neoplastic  lymphocytes, suggesting that patients with CLL can be more accurately evaluated on the basis of the analysis of signaling mechanisms controlling integrin activation. Our findings could potentially affect the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy of CLL disorders."
362	"BACKGROUND: Aberrant activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling promotes the development of several cancers. It has been demonstrated that the Wnt signaling pathway is activated in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells, and that uncontrolled Wnt/beta-catenin signaling may contribute to the defect in apoptosis that characterizes this malignancy. Thus, the Wnt signaling pathway is an attractive candidate for developing targeted therapies for CLL. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The diuretic agent ethacrynic acid (EA) was identified as a Wnt inhibitor using a cell-based Wnt reporter assay. In vitro assays further confirmed the inhibitory effect of EA on Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Cell viability assays showed that EA selectively induced cell death in primary CLL cells. Exposure of CLL cells to EA decreased the expression of Wnt/beta-catenin target genes, including LEF-1, cyclin D1 and fibronectin. Immune co-precipitation experiments demonstrated that EA could directly bind to LEF-1 protein and destabilize the LEF-1/beta-catenin complex. N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), which can react with the alpha, beta-unsaturated ketone in EA, but not other anti-oxidants, prevented the drug's inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin activation and its ability to induce apoptosis in CLL cells. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our studies indicate that EA selectively suppresses CLL survival due to inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Antagonizing Wnt signaling in CLL with EA or related drugs may represent an effective treatment of this disease."
363	"PURPOSE: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with high-risk genomic  features achieve poor outcomes with traditional therapies. A phase I study of a pharmacokinetically derived schedule of flavopiridol suggested promising activity in CLL, irrespective of high-risk features. Given the relevance of these findings to treating genetically high-risk CLL, a prospective confirmatory study was initiated. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with relapsed CLL were treated with single-agent flavopiridol, with subsequent addition of dexamethasone to suppress cytokine release syndrome (CRS). High-risk genomic features were prospectively assessed for response to therapy. RESULTS: Sixty-four patients were enrolled. Median age was 60 years, median number of prior therapies was four, and all patients had received prior purine analog therapy. If patients tolerated treatment during week 1, dose escalation occurred during week 2. Dose escalation did not occur in four patients, as a result of severe tumor lysis syndrome; three of these patients required hemodialysis. Thirty-four patients (53%) achieved response, including 30 partial  responses (PRs; 47%), three nodular PRs (5%), and one complete response (1.6%). A majority of high-risk patients responded; 12 (57%) of 21 patients with del(17p13.1) and 14 (50%) of 28 patients with del(11q22.3) responded irrespective of lymph node size. Median progression-free survival among responders was 10 to 12 months across all cytogenetic risk groups. Reducing the number of weekly treatments per cycle from four to three and adding prophylactic dexamethasone, which abrogated interleukin-6 release and CRS (P < or = .01), resulted in improved tolerability and treatment delivery. CONCLUSION: Flavopiridol achieves significant clinical activity in patients with  relapsed CLL, including those with high-risk genomic features and bulky lymphadenopathy. Subsequent clinical trials should use the amended treatment schedule developed herein and prophylactic corticosteroids."
364	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNA molecules, which act as post-transcriptional regulators of a gene expression, with important functions within the cell physiology. Whilst many authors have focused on the study of miRNA expression in  physiological and pathological processes, various technical variables related to  miRNA isolation have simultaneously emerged and the stability of the stored miRNA samples has been questioned. A robust method for RNA isolation is essential for reproducible results and miRNAs instability in the stored samples would make for  an alarming situation for most expression studies. Here these issues are discussed and we investigate the stability of miRNAs isolated from clinical samples of B lymphocytes (chronic lymphocytic leukemia) by the most commonly utilized method based on a Trizol/TRI-Reagent solution (RNAs stored at -80 degrees C). To assess the stability of miRNAs, a Real Time-PCR analysis was performed for a panel of 29 miRNAs from a freshly isolated RNA sample and after 14 days storage at -80 degrees C. Furthermore, a Real Time-PCR analysis was repeatedly performed for a stored RNA sample over a period of approximately 10 months. We observed high stability of isolated miRNAs and respective cDNAs. The reproducibility and efficiency of the Trizol/TRI-Reagent isolation method was also tested and compared to the mirVana Isolation kit (Ambion) and RNeasy kit (Qiagen). In conclusion, Trizol/TRI-Reagent based isolation is a robust reproducible method, and obtained miRNA samples do not show any tendency to degradation when properly stored and handled."
365	"Immune-related deficiencies are well-known complications of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Although recent data indicate that almost all CLL patients are preceded by a monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis precursor state, patterns of immune defects preceding CLL diagnosis are unclear. We identified 109 persons who developed CLL from the prospective and nationwide Prostate, Lung, Colorectal and  Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial with 77 469 participants, with serially collected  prediagnostic serum samples. We assayed monoclonal (M)-proteins, kappa/lambda free light chains (FLCs) in prediagnostic obtained up to 9.8 years before CLL diagnosis. The prevalence of an abnormal FLC ratio, M-protein, and hypogamma-globulinemia before CLL diagnosis was 38% (95% confidence interval, 29%-47%), 13% (7%-21%), and 3% (1%-8%), respectively. M-proteins and abnormal FLC ratios were detected up to 9.8 years before CLL diagnosis in a total of 48 persons (44%). Hypogammaglobulinemia was not present until 3 years before the diagnosis of CLL. Among 37 patients with information on tumor cell immunophenotype, an association between immunophenotype and involved FLC (P = .024, Fisher exact test) was observed. Among 61 persons with a normal FLC ratio and without an M-protein, 17 had elevated kappa and/or lambda FLC levels, indicating polyclonal B-cell activation in 17 of 109 (16%) patients. These findings support a role for chronic immune stimulation in CLL genesis."
366	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cell migration into lymphoid tissues is an important aspect of the pathobiology of this disease. Here, we investigated the role of ephrin-A4 (EFNA4) in the transendothelial migration (TEM) capacity of CLL and normal B cells through interacting with endothelial EphA2 (erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular carcinoma). CLL cells showed a remarkable impairment in the adhesion to and transmigration through human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) monolayers, correlating with their higher EFNA4 expression. In vitro, TEM was mediated by EFNA4 binding to endothelial EphA2 receptor, which is highly expressed in tumor necrosis factor-alpha-activated HUVECs as well as in the CD31(+) endothelial cells of human lymph nodes. The pretreatment of CLL cells with EphA2 homodimers further impaired their adhesion to and transmigration through HUVEC monolayers, whereas pretreatment of HUVECs with EFNA4 homodimers improved those phenomena in both CLL and normal B cells, suggesting that EFNA4 signaling negatively contributed to TEM. In fact, EFNA4 signaling into CLL cells significantly reduced their adhesion to intercellular adhesion molecule 1, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, and several extracellular matrix molecules and impaired CCL-19-mediated TEM and chemotaxis. Our results suggest that EFNA4-EphA2 interactions are involved in CLL cell trafficking between blood and the tissues and therefore may become a therapeutic target in the future."
367	"Interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma (IDCS) is a rare tumor derived from interdigitating dendritic cells. Three cases of IDCS associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) have been described, but no clonal relationship between the 2 neoplasms was demonstrated. We present a detailed case analysis of a CLL/SLL with metachronous IDCS and demonstrate that these 2 neoplasms are clonally related. The IDCS and CLL cells had trisomy 12 and identical monoclonal immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangements. Analysis of  transcription factors with a role in myeloid differentiation demonstrated PU.1 up-regulation and C/EBPalpha down-regulation in IDCS compared with CLL. High-density array comparative genomic hybridization also identified gains in part of chromosome 16q in IDCS. Our study demonstrates for the first time clonal  transformation of CLL/SLL into IDCS. This phenomenon may be triggered by alterations in lineage-determining transcription programs, which result in transdifferentiation, coupled with additional oncogenic stimuli caused by chromosomal imbalances."
368	"The roles in brain development. Previous studies have shown the association between OTX2 and OTX1 with anaplastic and desmoplastic medulloblastomas, respectively. Here, we investigated OTX1 and OTX2 expression in Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL) and multiple myeloma. A combination of semiquantitative RT-PCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemical analyses was used to measure OTX1 and OTX2  levels in normal lymphoid tissues and in 184 tumor specimens representative of various forms of NHL and multiple myeloma. OTX1 expression was activated in 94% of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, in all Burkitt lymphomas, and in 90% of high-grade follicular lymphomas. OTX1 was undetectable in precursor-B lymphoblastic lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and in most marginal zone and mantle cell lymphomas and multiple myeloma. OTX2 was undetectable in all analyzed malignancies. Analysis of OTX1 expression in normal lymphoid tissues identified a subset of resting germinal center (GC) B cells lacking PAX5 and BCL6 and expressing cytoplasmic IgG and syndecan. About 50% of OTX1(+) GC B cells co-expressed CD10 and CD20. This study identifies OTX1 as a molecular marker for  high-grade GC-derived NHL and suggests an involvement of this transcription factor in B-cell lymphomagenesis. Furthermore, OTX1 expression in a subset of normal GC B cells carrying plasma cell markers suggests its possible contribution to terminal B-cell differentiation."
370	"Indolent B lymphoproliferative disorder, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) represents one of the most common hematologic diseases in the Western world. Although there are many disease development markers known so far, for example, B-cell lymphoma/leukemia (BCL) 2, new ones are needed for better understanding course of the disease. FOXP1 is known to be strongly expressed after B-cell activation. Its essential role in B-cell development suggested that it could also have a role in a various tumor B-cells. We have analyzed 74 bone marrow samples from B-CLL patients for presence of FOXP1 and its gene aberrations in tumor cells. Our results showed presence of FOXP1 protein mostly in the same tumor cells as BCL2 protein, and their specific immunostaining pattern. Diffuse immunostaining pattern of both proteins is present in patients with higher clinical stages of B-CLL and with some other markers that indicate worse outcome  of the disease. Thus, FOXP1 and/or BCL2 immunostaining of bone marrow trephine sections could serve as an immunohistochemical marker in B-CLL."
371	"The t(11;14)(q13;q32) is a hallmark of mantle cell lymphoma. It has been found less frequently in other lymphoproliferative disorders, such as B-prolymphocytic  leukemia, plasma cell leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and multiple myeloma. Here, we describe a patient with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), categorized as M5b according to French-American-British classification, in which  conventional cytogenetic analysis revealed a karyotype with t(11;14)(q13;q32). Fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses demonstrated no rearrangement of the  immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IGH) (14q32) locus as well as of the cyclin D1 (CCND1) gene, suggesting that this is not the typical t(11;14) resulting from the CCND1/IGH fusion. The changes in the 11q13 region have been described in both myeloid and lymphoid neoplasm with different chromosomes serving as donors in translocation, but to the best of our knowledge, never with the chromosome 14."
372	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a highly variable clinical course. Characteristic genomic abnormalities provide clinically important prognostic information. Because karyotyping and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) are laborious techniques, we investigated the diagnostic efficacy of the more recently developed multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) technique. MLPA and interphase FISH data of 88 CLL patients  were compared for loci encompassing the 13q14 region, chromosome 12, and the ATM  (11q22) and TP53 (17p13) genes. We found a perfect correlation, provided that the abnormal clone was present in at least 10-20% of the cells. Because multiple loci and multiple probes per locus were included in the MLPA assay, additional abnormalities not covered by the FISH probes were detected. Furthermore, in 13 cases deletions partly covering the 13q14.3 locus were observed, including three  deletions that remained undetected by FISH. All the deletions included the noncoding RNA locus DLEU1 (previously BCMS), which is considered to be the most likely CLL-associated candidate tumor suppressor gene within the 13q14 region. We conclude that MLPA serves as a comprehensive and reliable technique for the simultaneous identification of different clinically relevant and region-specific  genomic aberrations in CLL."
373	"Evasion of apoptosis is a hallmark of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), calling for new strategies to bypass resistance. Here, we provide first evidence that small-molecule X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) inhibitors in combination with the death receptor ligand tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) present a novel approach to trigger apoptosis in CLL, including subgroups with resistant disease or unfavorable prognosis. XIAP, cellular IAP (cIAP) 1, and cIAP2 are expressed at high levels in primary CLL samples. Proof-of-concept studies in CLL cell lines show that subtoxic concentrations of XIAP inhibitors significantly enhance TRAIL-induced apoptosis and also sensitize  for CD95-mediated apoptosis. Importantly also in primary CLL samples, XIAP inhibitor acts in concert with TRAIL to trigger apoptosis in 18 of 27 (67%) cases. This XIAP inhibitor-induced and TRAIL-induced apoptosis involves caspase-3 activation and is blocked by the caspase inhibitor zVAD.fmk. The cooperative interaction of XIAP inhibitor and TRAIL is even evident in distinct subgroups of  patients with poor prognostic features (i.e., with 17p deletion, TP53 mutation, chemotherapy-refractory disease, or unmutated V(H) genes). Interestingly, cases with unmutated V(H) genes were significantly more sensitive to XIAP inhibitor-induced and TRAIL-induced apoptosis compared with V(H) gene-mutated samples, pointing to a role of B-cell receptor signaling in apoptosis regulation. By showing that XIAP inhibitors in combination with TRAIL present a new strategy  to trigger apoptosis even in resistant forms and poor prognostic subgroups of CLL, our findings have important implications for the development of apoptosis-based therapies in CLL."
374	"The mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable region heavy chain genes (IGHV) is an important prognostic marker in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The data accumulated in the literature has largely been derived from studies conducted on Caucasian Western populations. Little is known about Asian CLL patients. In this study the IGHV genes usage and somatic hypermutation status have been investigated in 87 Iranian CLL patients. Based on a cut-off of 98% nucleotide sequence homology, 64.4% and 35.6% of the patients expressed mutated and unmutated IGHV genes, respectively, with most non-progressive patients being  in the mutated group (35/44 vs 19/40; P = 0.009). Progression-free survival (PFS) and time to first treatment (TTFT) were significantly higher in our mutated and non-progressive patients compared to unmutated and progressive subtypes, respectively. The most frequently used IGHV gene was IGHV3-7 (12.6%) followed by  IGHV3-30 (11.4%), IGHV3-48 (9.2%), IGHV4-39 (6.9%), and IGHV1-8 (6.9%) genes, which taken together comprised nearly half of the IGHV genes expressed in the Iranian CLL patients. Of the IGHV genes, IGHV3-7 was significantly over-represented in non-progressive compared to progressive CLL patients (P = 0.036), whereas IGHV1-69 and IGHV1-2 were expressed at a higher frequency in unmutated compared to mutated CLL patients (P < 0.03). Comparison of IGHV gene usage in our patients with that of Western CLL patients revealed significant differences in expression of IGHV1-69, IGHV3-7, IGHV3-21, and IGHV4-34 genes. Analysis of the IGHV third complementary determining region (HCDR3) sequences revealed a high frequency use of certain HCDR3 motifs, such as YYYGMDV, in our samples. These findings imply contribution of antigen selection and regional (ethnic/geographic) parameters in the leukomogenesis of CLL."
375	"One of the major issues in current antibody therapy is insufficient efficacy. Various biological factors relating to the host's immune system or tumor cells have been suggested to reduce the efficacy of anti-CD20 therapy in B-cell malignancies. In this study, we characterized the in vitro anti-lymphoma activity of anti-CD20 antibodies having a novel engineered heavy chain with enhanced complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC). Anti-CD20 antibodies having a variant heavy constant region of mixed IgG1/IgG3 isotype, which have previously been found to enhance CDC, were investigated for their in vitro CDC against lymphoma cells and whole blood B-cell depletion activity. Use of the variant constant region greatly increased the CDC of an anti-CD20 antibody having variable regions identical to those of rituximab to the level shown by an IgG1 antibody of ofatumumab. Although the whole blood assay showed different cytotoxicity patterns among individual blood donors, the CDC-enhancing variant of rituximab showed higher activity than the parent IgG1 and consistently showed maximized activity when further combined with antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC)-enhancing modification by fucose removal from Fc-linked oligosaccharides.  In addition, the rituximab variant showed potent CDC against transfectant cells with lower CD20 expression and chronic lymphocytic leukemia-derived cell lines with higher complement regulatory proteins. These findings suggest that CDC enhancement, both alone and in combination with ADCC enhancement, increases the anti-lymphoma activity of anti-CD20 antibodies irrespective of individual differences in effector functions, and renders current anti-CD20 therapy capable  of overcoming the potential resistance mechanisms."
376	"TRU-016, under development by Trubion Pharmaceuticals Inc and Facet Biotech Corp, is an intravenously administered anti-CD37 IgG fusion protein for the potential treatment of B-cell malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), as well as for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. TRU-016 was created by humanizing SMIP-016, a mouse/human chimeric protein that demonstrated antitumor activity against lymphoid malignancies in preclinical studies, including in human B-cell tumor mouse xenograft models. In addition, TRU-016 demonstrated synergistic or additive activity in NHL cells in combination with rituximab, rapamycin, doxorubicin and bendamustine. In a phase I/II clinical trial in refractory or relapsed patients with CLL or small lymphocytic lymphoma, TRU-016 was well tolerated, with clinical benefit and a reduced absolute lymphocyte count observed in all cohorts dosed at > 0.1 mg/kg. TRU-016 is a promising therapeutic agent for patients with B-cell lymphoid malignancies, especially patients refractory to standard treatment."
377	"Fc receptor-like 2 (FCRL2) is highly expressed on B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells and could possibly influence disease pathogenesis. Therefore, we investigated FCRL2 mRNA expression in a large cohort with 152 CLL patients in order to assess its role in risk prediction in B-CLL. FCRL2 mRNA expression was found to be expressed at considerably higher levels in peripheral  blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of B-CLL patients compared to controls (range 1.35- to 210-fold upregulation; P < 0.0001) and cells of other hematological diseases. Patients with high FCRL2 expression (according to ROC-analysis) had a significantly longer treatment-free survival (TFS) and overall survival (OS) than patients with low FCRL2 expression (median TFS: 119 vs. 34 months, P < 0.0001; median OS: 321 months vs. not reached, P = 0.009). Univariate comparisons found that FCRL2 expression was weakly associated with IGHV mutation status (P = 0.05), CD38 status (P < 0.0001) and ZAP-70 status (P < 0.0001). Furthermore, we show that the combination of FCRL2 with ZAP70-, CD38- or IGHV-status could further significantly refine the prognostic information provided by either of the factors alone in TFS and OS. In multivariate analysis low FCRL2 expression was a significant independent prognostic factor (HR 2.4; P = 0.005). Here we demonstrate that the level of FCRL2 expression is correlated with prognosis in B-CLL."
378	"BACKGROUND: The phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/Akt pathway has been described to be critical in the survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. In this study  we analyzed the effect of two selective chemical inhibitors of Akt (Akti-1/2 and  A-443654) on the survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. DESIGN AND METHODS: Using cytometry we studied the cytotoxic effects of Akt inhibitors on peripheral B and T lymphocytes from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and from healthy donors. We studied the changes induced by Akti-1/2 and A-443654 at the mRNA level by performing reverse transcriptase multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. We also studied the changes induced by both Akt inhibitors in some BCL-2 protein family members on chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells by western blotting. Moreover, we analyzed the cytotoxic effect of Akt inhibitors in patients' cells with deleted/mutated TP53. RESULTS: Both inhibitors induced apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells  in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia were more sensitive to Akt inhibitors than T cells from leukemic patients, and B or T cells from healthy donors. Survival factors for chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, such as interleukin-4 and stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha, were not able to block the apoptosis induced by either Akt inhibitor. Akti-1/2 did not induce any change in the mRNA expression profile of genes involved in apoptosis, while A-443654 induced some changes, including an increase in NOXA and PUMA mRNA levels, suggesting the existence of additional targets for A-443654. Both inhibitors induced an increase in PUMA and  NOXA protein levels, and a decrease in MCL-1 protein level. Moreover, Akti-1/2 and A-443654 induced apoptosis irrespective of TP53 status. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that Akt inhibitors induce apoptosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells and might be a new therapeutic option for the  treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
379	"Samples submitted for a suspect of chronic lymphocytic leukemia are the most frequently observed in flow cytometry laboratories. These cases require not only  a precise and prompt diagnosis but also an evaluation on the possibility of performing additional prognostic tests. We will propose two sequential flow cytometry panels and a personal opinion on how to manage these samples for both diagnostic and prognostic assessment, taking into account the published guidelines and recommendations."
380	"Growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 is an adaptor molecule that mediates B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathways, but the expression of growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 in lymphoma tissues has not been reported. We sought to  characterize growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 protein expression in reactive tonsillar tissues and lymphoma tissues obtained from diagnostic biopsies of classical Hodgkin lymphoma, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma, and 20 low-grade B-cell lymphomas. Growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 expression was assessed in tissues by immunohistochemistry and in lymphoma cell lines by immunoblotting. In reactive lymphoid tissues, growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 was expressed in the cytoplasm of B-cells and histiocytes but not T-cells. Strong, cytoplasmic growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 expression was seen in the neoplastic cells of follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, splenic marginal zone lymphoma, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma. In contrast, only 10% of the classical Hodgkin lymphomas showed growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 expression in the neoplastic cells. Growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 protein expression was detected by Western blotting in all lymphoma cell lines tested with higher levels in primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma compared with classical Hodgkin lymphoma cell lines. These findings support a role for growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 in the diagnostically challenging workup of classical Hodgkin lymphoma versus primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma and warrant further studies to evaluate the biologic significance of growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 in the pathogenesis of classical Hodgkin lymphoma."
381	"BACKGROUND: Following gene expression profiling which compared the two well established prognostic markers in CLL, ZAP-70 and CD38 with unmutated and mutated IgVH, ZAP-70 has emerged as the most promising surrogate marker for the IgVH mutation status. CD38 expression has also been suggested as a surrogate marker for the IgVH mutation status. AIM: We aimed to investigate the impact of ZAP-70 and CD38 expressions as well as their combined expressions on the treatment outcome and survival of our CLL patients. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study included 50 CLL patients as well as10 normal volunteers as a control group. All patients were subjected to complete work up and immunophenotyping to confirm the diagnosis. ZAP-70 and CD38 expressions were  studied in (CD19+, CD5+) B cells. Results were expressed as percent expression and mean flourecent index (MFI). Results were correlated to the treatment outcome and survival as well as to other prognostic markers of CLL including TLC, Hb level, platelets count, modified Rai staging at diagnosis, P53 and BCL 2. RESULTS: A significant association was found between ZAP-70 percent expression and the diffuse pattern of bone marrow infiltration (p<0.002) as well as the P53  percent expression (p=0.005). A Significant increase in serum levels of LDH and B2M in ZAP-70 positive as compared to negative groups was detected (p=0.049 and 0.007 respectively). A higher number of non-responding patients was reported in the ZAP70 positive as compared to ZAP70 negative group (p<0.001). ZAP-70 percent  expression was significantly associated with shorter time to disease progression  (TDP) and shorter overall survival (p=0.025 and 0.029 respectively). A significant increase in serum levels of B2M in CD38 percent positive as compared  to negative group was encountered (p=0.045). CD38-MFI showed a significant associations to advanced modified Rai staging at diagnosis (p=0.019) and to higher serum levels of both LDH and B2M (p=0.03 and 0.05 respectively). CD38, either expressed as a percentage or as MFI, showed a significant association with the non-responders (p=0.034 and 0.006 respectively). There was a significant inverse relation between CD38 expression and time to disease progression (p=0.033) while no significant relation was encountered with overall survival (p=0.197). Combined expression of both markers, ZAP-70+ /CD38+ was reported in 5  patients (10%) while ZAP-70- /CD38- expression was encountered in 24 patients (48%). Patients with either ZAP-70+ or CD38+ represented 42% of the cases (21 patients).There were significant differences between the three groups and the initial response to chemotherapy (p=<0.001) and the pattern of bone morrow infiltration (p=0.015), while no significant relation was found with age, sex, modified Rai staging at diagnosis or BCL2 percent expression. Patients with combined expression of ZAP-70 and CD38 had significantly shorter TDP and overall  survival (p<0.001 and 0.03 respectively). CONCLUSION: ZAP-70 is one of the most important prognostic markers in CLL, it appears to be more predictive of disease progression and poor outcome than CD38 expression. Semi quantification of the CD38 antigen by flowcytometry greatly improves the prognostic value of its expression. The combination of ZAP-70 and CD38 increases the prognostic power of either alone. KEY WORDS: CLL - Prognostic factors - ZAP 70 and CD38."
383	"The Wnt molecules are a family of secretory glycoproteins implicated in proliferation and differentiation of both normal and malignant cells. Despite extensive investigation of the WNT genes expression profile in various tumors, little is known about their expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In  this study, the expression profile of 14 WNT genes was investigated in a large number of Iranian patients with CLL. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR was performed on peripheral blood leukemic cells obtained from 62 patients with CLL. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from 11 age matched normal subjects served as control to determine baseline expression level of these genes. Our results have demonstrated significant up-regulation of WNT-3, WNT-4, WNT-5B, WNT-7B, WNT-9A, WNT-10A, and WNT-16B in patients with CLL compared to normal subjects (p < 0.05 to p < 0.0001). WNT gene expression analysis in different CLL subtypes showed a similar pattern of expression in progressive and indolent clinical subtypes. Over-expression of WNT-5A and WNT-9A genes was observed in patients with no mutation in their immunoglobulin (Ig) variable region heavy chain (Ig VH) genes compared to those with mutated Ig VH genes. Comparison between patients expressing VH1 (n = 9), VH3 (n = 40) and VH4 (n = 12) gene families, revealed down-regulation of WNT-3 and WNT-9A in VH3 positive patients. Our results indicate up-regulation of many members of the WNT gene family in CLL suggesting involvement of the Wnt canonical and/or noncanonical signaling pathways in CLL tumorigenesis."
384	"Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) protects chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells from apoptosis. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) also protects CLL cells against apoptosis. The mechanism for LPA protection against apoptosis in CLL cells is unknown. Herein, we show CLL cells express LPA receptors LPA(1-5) but in normal B cells, LPA(1) was rarely expressed and LPA(3,) LPA(4,) and LPA(6) were undetectable whereas the other LPA receptors were expressed. LPA plasma levels are similar in patients with CLL compared to healthy controls. In contrast, plasma levels of VEGF are elevated in patients with CLL compared to healthy controls and LPA treatment induced VEGF secretion in CLL cells. CLL cells also express VEGF receptors and LPA protection against Flu induced apoptosis is blocked by inhibition of VEGF receptor activation. These results indicate that LPA protects CLL cells from apoptosis through higher expression of LPA receptors  and autocrine production of VEGF."
385	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells are susceptible to oxidative stress. The expanded porphyrin, motexafin gadolinium (MGd), reacts with intracellular reducing metabolites and protein thiols to generate reactive oxygen species (ROS). A phase II trial administered MGd 5 mg/kg/day IV for 5 days every 3 weeks  until disease progression to patients with previously treated CLL and small lymphocytic lymphoma. Thirteen patients (median age 66 years) with a median of four prior therapies (range 2-9) were enrolled. Modest anti-tumor activity was seen in three patients, with improvement in lymphocytosis, lymphadenopathy and/or splenomegaly, but no patient achieved a partial or complete response by NCI 96 criteria. Flow cytometry confirmed tumor uptake of MGd. Serial increase in AKT phosphorylation in patient samples following MGd treatment was not observed, suggesting intracellular generation of ROS was not optimal. Therefore, this schedule of administration achieved MGd uptake into primary tumor cells in vivo,  but clinical activity was modest."
387	"The aim of this study was to investigate how myeloperoxidase (MPO) G-463A gene polymorphism and enzyme levels varied among patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM) and to find the relationship between the MPO gene, enzyme levels, and clinical parameters. We studied the sera from 40 healthy volunteers, patients with CLL (n = 34) and MM (n = 28). In subjects with  homozygote GG genotype, MPO levels were higher in the patients with both CLL and  MM than in the control group. This difference was statistically significant in patients with CLL. In conclusion, homozygote GG genotype is found to be associated with an increasing amount of serum MPO. In accordance with the results of the study, we assess that the increase in the MPO enzyme level in the patient  groups with CLL and MM generated bactericidal effects as well as the increased formation of ROP, thus setting off a pro-cell death pathway and playing a role on the pathogenesis of lymphoproliferative malignancies through this mechanism."
388	"JAK2 mutation has not been described in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We found JAK2 mutation in a patient with CLL and coexisting myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN). In this patient, we demonstrated the presence  of the JAK2 mutation in CD34(+) progenitor cells, myeloid lineage cells, megakaryocytes, B lymphocytes but not in T lymphocytes. This case represents the  first case report of JAK2 mutation in CLL and may also suggest that, JAK2 mutation most likely represents a secondary event from primary gene mutations involving the primitive stem cells which give rise to MPN and CLL. Furthermore, in this case, we believe that we are the first to demonstrate that JAK2 mutation  in myeloid and B lymphoid cells but not T lymphocytes in a case of coexisting CLL and MPN."
389	"Expression of the anti-apoptotic myeloid cell leukemia-1 (MCL-1) gene is a novel  prognostic factor in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Vascular and endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) are able to upregulate  MCL-1 via autocrine signaling loops. In 88 B-CLL patients, we found a strong correlation of MCL-1 gene expression with VEGF (P<10(-7)) but not with IL-6 mRNA  levels. VEGF but not IL-6 expression influenced patient prognosis. VEGF may be a  positive autocrine in vivo regulator of MCL-1 in B-CLL. Inhibition of VEGF and its signaling may prove to be useful in the treatment of B-CLL patients."
390	"The clinical, cytogenetic and molecular features of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), a disease previously considered to be rare in Asia, were examined in consecutive series of 70 cases diagnosed by our laboratory over a 30-month period. Clonal abnormalities were observed in 80% of CLL/SLL cases using a combination of conventional cytogenetic and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis. Those involving 14q32/IGH were the most frequent (24 cases), followed by trisomy 12 and 11q abnormalities. IgV(H) gene usage was non-random with over-representation of V(H)4-34, V(H)3-23 and a previously unreported increase in V(H)3-48 gene use. Somatic hypermutation (SHM)  of IgV(H) germline sequences was observed in 56.5% of cases with stereotyped patterns of SHM observed in V(H)4-34 heavy chain complimentary-determining (HCDR1) and framework region CFR2 sequences. These findings in a Chinese population suggest subtle geographical differences in IgV(H) gene usage while the remarkably specific pattern of SHM suggest that a relatively limited set of antigens may be involved in the development of this disease worldwide. IgV(H) gene mutation status was a significant predictor of initial survival in CLL/SLL.  However, an influence of karyotype on prognosis was not observed."
391	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of adult leukemias in the Western countries, however, infrequent in the Eastern. A diagnosis of CLL requires a count of B-lymphocytes >/=5.0x10(9)/L. Asymptomatic person with <5.0x10(9)/L B-lymphocytes is defined as monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL). To compare the clinical characteristics, prognostic factors, and outcome of Chinese patients with MBL and CLL, we present a study from our single centre of 20 patients with MBL and 136 patients with CLL. The factors included: age at diagnosis, gender, direct antiglobulin test (DAT), immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene (IgHV) mutational status, ZAP-70 protein, CD38 expression level, and molecular cytogenetic aberrations were analyzed in MBL and CLL subgroups. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to construct  survival curves, and results were compared using the log-rank test. Patients in the MBL category were slightly older than in the CLL category. There was no significant difference of these clinical and biological characteristics between patients in MBL subgroup and early stage CLL (Binet A). The incidence of positive DAT was significantly increased in CLL patients at Binet B and C, compared with MBL (P=0.036). IgHV gene mutation in MBL is skewed, with more than 92.3% of subjects harbored mutated IgVH genes (P=0.025). The proportion of MBL patients with a 13q14 deletion or trisomy 12 was similar to that of CLL patients. Moreover, markers associated with poor prognosis (deletion of 11q22 or 17p13) in  these MBL populations were less than those in Binet B and C CLL patients (P=0.025). No statistically significant differences in ZAP-70 and CD38 status were observed between the MBL and CLL subgroups. During a median follow-up period of 45.5 months, MBL patients had a low probability of progression, with no patients transformed to aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or dying of CLL-related causes. The overall survival of MBL was very similar to Binet A CLL, but longer than that of CLL patients at advanced stages (Binet B and C) (P=0.024). Our study demonstrated that a more indolent clinical course and superior clinical outcome for patients with MBL compared to CLL."
392	"Epigenetic code modifications by histone deacetylase inhibitors have recently been proposed as potential new therapies for hematological malignancies. Chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable despite the introduction of new treatments. CLL B cells are characterized by an apoptosis defect rather than excessive proliferation, but proliferation centers have been found in organs such as the bone marrow and lymph nodes. In this study, we analyzed gene expression modifications in CLL B cells after treatment with valproic acid (VPA), a well-tolerated anti-epileptic drug with HDAC inhibitory activity. CLL B cells obtained from 14 patients were treated in vitro with a concentration of 1 mM VPA  for 4 h. VPA effects on gene expression were thereafter studied using Affymetrix  technology, and some identified genes were validated by real-time PCR and western blot. We observed that VPA induced apoptosis by downregulating several anti-apoptotic genes and by upregulating pro-apoptotic genes. Furthermore, VPA significantly increased chemosensitivity to fludarabine, flavopiridol, bortezomib, thalidomide and lenalidomide. VPA inhibited the proliferation of CpG/IL2-stimulated CLL B cells and modulated many cell cycle messenger RNAs. In conclusion, exposure of CLL B cells to VPA induced apoptosis, potentiated chemotherapeutic agent effects and inhibited proliferation. These data strongly suggest the use of VPA in CLL treatment, particularly in combination with antileukemia agents."
393	"BACKGROUND: Despite the increasing cure rates for children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), patients who relapse continue to have poor prognosis. The Children's Oncology Group (COG) conducted a limited institution Phase II trial of Campath-1H, a monoclonal antibody that targets CD52 on leukemic cells, in children with relapsed or refractory ALL. METHODS: From October 2005 to December 2006, 13 eligible patients were enrolled on the COG phase II study of Campath-1H (ADVL0222). Campath-1H was initially administered as an intravenous infusion over 2 hr, five times per week for 1 week, then three times per week for three additional weeks. Patients with stable  disease or better on day 29 could continue on to combination therapy with Campath-1H, methotrexate, and 6-mercaptopurine for two additional cycles. RESULTS: One of 13 patients enrolled had a complete response to Campath-1H and 4  had stable disease. Dose limiting toxicity occurred in two out of nine fully evaluable patients (Grade IV pain and Grade III allergic reaction/hypersensitivity). No patients received combination therapy. Serum Campath-1H concentrations appeared to be somewhat lower in children with ALL compared with adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. CONCLUSION: Although a single complete response was observed, activity of single  agent Campath-1H appears limited. Our study does not support future single agent  evaluation of Campath-1H in children with relapsed ALL."
396	"A genome-wide linkage scan has provided evidence for a chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) susceptibility locus at 2q21 to which the chemokine receptor CXCR4 gene maps. Recent data provide some evidence for common variation in CXCR4 according to the polymorphic variant rs2228014 defining CLL risk. To examine the  role of genetic variation in CXCR4 on CLL risk, we screened 188 familial CLL cases and 213 controls for germline mutations in the coding regions of CXCR4 and  genotyped rs2228014 in 1058 CLL cases and 1807 controls. No association between rs2228014 and risk of CLL was seen (P = .83). One truncating (W195X) and 2 missense mutations with possible functional consequences (V139I and G335S) were identified among 186 familial cases and 0 in 213 controls sequenced. Our analysis provides no evidence that common variation in CXCR4 defined by rs228014 influences the risk of CLL, but that functional coding mutations in CXCR4 may contribute to familial CLL."
397	"Clonal evolution and outgrowth of cellular variants with additional chromosomal abnormalities are major causes of disease progression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Because new DNA lesions occur during S phase, proliferating cells are at the core of this problem. In this study, we used in vivo deuterium ((2)H)  labeling of CLL cells to better understand the phenotype of proliferating cells in 13 leukemic clones. In each case, there was heterogeneity in cellular proliferation, with a higher fraction of newly produced CD38+ cells compared with CD38- counterparts. On average, there were 2-fold higher percentages of newly born cells in the CD38+ fraction than in CD38- cells; when analyzed on an individual patient basis, CD38+ (2)H-labeled cells ranged from 6.6% to 73%. Based on distinct kinetic patterns, interclonal heterogeneity was also observed. Specifically, 4 patients exhibited a delayed appearance of newly produced CD38+ cells in the blood, higher leukemic cell CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) levels, and increased risk for lymphoid organ infiltration and poor outcome. Our data refine the proliferative compartment in CLL based on CD38 expression and suggest  a relationship between in vivo kinetics, expression of a protein involved in CLL  cell retention and trafficking to solid tissues, and clinical outcome."
398	"One of the most unexpected and fascinating discoveries in oncology over the past  few years is the interplay between abnormalities in protein-coding genes and noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) that is causally involved in cancer initiation, progression, and dissemination. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), small regulatory ncRNAs, are  involved in the pathogenesis of all types of human cancers, including leukemias,  mainly via dysregulation of expression of cancer genes. Increasing evidence shows that miRNAs can work as tumor suppressors (inhibiting malignant potential) or oncogenes (activating malignant potential). Researchers first identified this new paradigm of molecular oncology in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Understanding the roles of miRNAs and other ncRNAs in leukemic cells is not only uncovering a new layer of gene regulation but also providing new markers for improved diagnosis and prognosis, as well as novel therapeutic options for CLL patients. Herein we focus on the roles of miRNAs and ultraconserved ncRNA genes in CLL, highlighting what is already known about their function, proposing  a novel model of CLL predisposition and progression, and describing the challenges for the near future."
399	"INTRODUCTION: Infectious complications represent a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The etiology is postulated to be secondary to aberrations in cell-mediated immunity, as well as to therapy-related immunosuppression. Hypogammaglobulinemia, which occurs in virtually all patients with CLL, may be profound and correlates with disease duration and stage. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy has been used successfully to prevent and treat infections in this cohort of patients. However  IVIG administration and treatment is not benign and should be used with caution given the potential manifestations of thromboembolic complications. High concentration and rapid infusion rate of the IVIG, as well as increased dose and  osmolarity of the solution are thought to predispose to thrombotic events. Serum  viscosity is the implicated mechanism for compromised blood flow and predisposition of high-risk patients to cardiovascular or cerebrovascular infarction. We report a case of IVIG related thromboembolic manifestations in a CLL patient, to highlight the importance of risk stratifying patients prior to treatment administration. CASE PRESENTATION: We present a 55-year-old Caucasian man with CLL who presented  to our clinic with neutropenic fevers following a cycle of chemotherapy. Laboratory parameters revealed hypogammaglobulinemia prompting IVIG administration. Shortly thereafter, he developed a massive cascade of thromboembolic phenomena precipitating his demise. CONCLUSION: The current consensus surrounding IVIG is that of a relatively safe treatment, with minor adverse effects such as hypertension, fever and chills, nausea, myalgias, or headache. However our report highlights the importance of proceeding with caution in the application of this therapy, as it's proclivity for thrombotic complications has not been fully elucidated in patients with underlying malignancies. Pre-existing thrombogenic risk factors should be carefully evaluated in patients undergoing treatment with IVIG. Clinical evaluation, with careful attention to vascular history and underlying co-morbidities can potentially unmask the high-risk patient where IVIG could be lethal."
400	"INTRODUCTION: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is the most common form of infection by Aspergillus species among immunocompromised patients. Although this  infection frequently involves the lung parenchyma, it is unusual to find it limited to the tracheobronchial tree, a condition known as invasive aspergillus tracheobronchitis. CASE PRESENTATION: A 65 year-old Hispanic man from Bolivia with a history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia developed cough and malaise eight months after having an allogenic stem cell transplant. A computed tomography of the chest revealed an area of diffuse soft tissue thickening around the left main stem bronchus, which was intensely fluorodeoxyglucose-avid on positron emission tomography scanning. An initial bronchoscopic exam revealed circumferential narrowing of the entire left main stem bronchus with necrotic and friable material on the medial wall. Neither aspirates from this necrotic area nor bronchial washing were diagnostic. A second bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasound evidenced a soft tissue thickening on the medial aspect of the left main stem bronchus underlying the area of necrosis visible endoluminally. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration performed in this area revealed multiple fungal elements suggestive of Aspergillus species. CONCLUSION: We describe the first case of invasive aspergillus tracheobronchitis  in which the diagnosis was facilitated by the use of endobronchial ultrasound guided trans-bronchial needle aspiration. To the best of our knowledge, we are also presenting the first positron emission tomography scan images of this condition in the literature. We cautiously suggest that endobronchial ultrasound  imaging may be a useful tool to evaluate the degree of invasion and the involvement of vascular structures in these patients prior to bronchoscopic manipulation of the affected areas in an effort to avoid potentially fatal hemorrhage."
401	"Tandem pleckstrin homology domain proteins (TAPPs) are recruited to the plasma membrane via binding to phosphoinositides produced by phosphoinositide 3-kinases  (PI3Ks). Whereas PI3Ks are critical for B-cell activation, the functions of TAPP  proteins in B cells are unknown. We have identified 40 potential interaction partners of TAPP2 in B cells, including proteins involved in cytoskeletal rearrangement, signal transduction and endocytic trafficking. The association of  TAPP2 with the cytoskeletal proteins utrophin and syntrophin was confirmed by Western blotting. We found that TAPP2, syntrophin, and utrophin are coexpressed in normal human B cells and B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells. TAPP2 and syntrophin expression in B-CLL was variable from patient to patient, with significantly higher expression in the more aggressive disease subset identified  by zeta-chain-associated protein kinase of 70 kDa (ZAP70) expression and unmutated immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) genes. We examined whether TAPP can regulate cell adhesion, a known function of utrophin/syntrophin in other cell types. Expression of membrane-targeted TAPP2 enhanced B-cell adhesion to fibronectin and laminin, whereas PH domain-mutant TAPP2 inhibited adhesion. siRNA knockdown of TAPP2 or utrophin, or treatment with PI3K inhibitors, significantly  inhibited adhesion. These findings identify TAPP2 as a novel link between PI3K signaling and the cytoskeleton with potential relevance for leukemia progression."
402	"Although activation of the B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathway is implicated  in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), its clinical impact and the molecular correlates of such response are not clearly defined. T-cell leukemia 1 (TCL1), the AKT modulator and proto-oncogene, is differentially expressed in CLL and linked to its pathogenesis based on CD5(+) B-cell expansions arising in TCL1-transgenic mice. We studied here the association of TCL1 levels and its intracellular dynamics with the in vitro responses to BCR stimulation in  70 CLL cases. The growth kinetics after BCR engagement correlated strongly with the degree and timing of induced AKT phospho-activation. This signaling intensity was best predicted by TCL1 levels and the kinetics of TCL1-AKT corecruitment to BCR membrane activation complexes, which further included the kinases LYN, SYK, ZAP70, and PKC. High TCL1 levels were also strongly associated with aggressive disease features, such as advanced clinical stage, higher white blood cell counts, and shorter lymphocyte doubling time. Higher TCL1 levels independently predicted an inferior clinical outcome (ie, shorter progression-free survival, P  < .001), regardless of therapy regimen, especially for ZAP70(+) tumors. We propose TCL1 as a marker of the BCR-responsive CLL subset identifying poor prognostic cases where targeting BCR-associated kinases may be therapeutically useful."
403	"Radiotherapy has a significant impact on the local tumor environment and its distant component. Abscopal effect is the bystander effect of radiotherapy observed at a site distant to that irradiated within the same subject. Abscopal effect even though described, is not a common clinical event. We report a documented observation of abscopal effect in a patient of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia during radiation therapy."
404	"Cancer precursor/progenitor cells may initiate and sustain the growth of tumors,  but evidence for their existence in human disease is indirect, relying on their in vitro properties and animal models. More directly, specific elimination of these rare cells from cancer patients should produce a delayed but progressive disappearance of differentiated malignant progeny. Here, we describe selective eradication of a putative precursor population in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, followed 6 months later by a progressive loss of mature tumor cells without further treatment. This outcome supports the presence of a rare population of precursor/progenitor cells in human malignancies, and suggests benefit from their removal."
405	"BACKGROUND: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) leads to progressive accumulation  of lymphocytes in the blood, bone marrow, and lymphatic tissues. Previous findings have suggested that the mtDNA could play an important role in CLL. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control-region was  analyzed in lymphocyte cell DNA extracts and compared with their granulocyte counterpart extract of 146 patients suffering from B-Cell CLL; B-CLL (all recruited from the Basque country). Major efforts were undertaken to rule out methodological artefacts that would render a high false positive rate for mtDNA instabilities and thus lead to erroneous interpretation of sequence instabilities. Only twenty instabilities were finally confirmed, most of them affecting the homopolymeric stretch located in the second hypervariable segment (HVS-II) around position 310, which is well known to constitute an extreme mutational hotspot of length polymorphism, as these mutations are frequently observed in the general human population. A critical revision of the findings in  previous studies indicates a lack of proper methodological standards, which eventually led to an overinterpretation of the role of the mtDNA in CLL tumorigenesis. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our results suggest that mtDNA instability is not the primary causal factor in B-CLL. A secondary role of mtDNA mutations cannot be fully ruled out under the hypothesis that the progressive accumulation of mtDNA instabilities could finally contribute to the tumoral process. Recommendations are given that would help to minimize erroneous interpretation of sequencing results in mtDNA studies in tumorigenesis."
406	"Nutritional status and physical activity are known to alter immune function, which may be relevant to lymphomagenesis. The authors examined body size measurements and recreational physical activity in relation to risk of B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in the prospective California Teachers Study. Between  1995 and 2007, 574 women were diagnosed with incident B-cell NHL among 121,216 eligible women aged 22-84 years at cohort entry. Multivariable-adjusted relative  risks and 95% confidence intervals were estimated by fitting Cox proportional hazards models for all B-cell NHL combined and for the 3 most common subtypes: diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Height was positively associated with risk of all B-cell NHLs (for >1.70 vs. 1.61-1.65 m, relative risk = 1.50, 95% confidence interval: 1.16, 1.96) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (relative risk = 1.93, 95% confidence interval: 1.09, 3.41). Weight and body mass index at age 18 years were positive predictors of B-cell NHL risk overall. These findings indicate that greater height, which may reflect genetics, early life immune function, infectious exposures, nutrition, or growth  hormone levels, may play a role in NHL etiology. Adiposity at age 18 years may be more relevant to NHL etiology than that in later life."
407	"Early stages in the development of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have not been explored mainly due to the inability to study normal B-cells en route to transformation. In order to determine such early events of leukemogenesis, we have used a well established mouse model for CLL. Over-expression of human TCL1,  a known CLL oncogene in murine B-cells leads to the development of mature CD19+/CD5+/IgM+ clonal leukemia with a disease phenotype similar to that seen in  human CLL. Herein, we review our recent study using this TCL1-driven mouse model  for CLL and corresponding human CLL samples in a cross-species epigenomics approach to address the timing and relevance of epigenetic events occurring during leukemogenesis. We demonstrated that the mouse model recapitulates the epigenetic events that have been reported for human CLL, affirming the power and  validity of this mouse model to study early epigenetic events in cancer progression. Epigenetic alterations are detected as early as three months after birth, far before disease manifests at about 11 months of age. These mice undergo NFkappaB repressor complex mediated inactivation of the transcription factor Foxd3, whose targets become aberrantly methylated and silenced in mouse and human CLL. Overall, our data suggest the accumulated epigenetic alterations during CLL  pathogenesis as a consequence of gene silencing through TCL1 and NFkappaB repressor complex, suggesting the relevance for NFkappaB as a therapeutic target  in CLL."
408	"PURPOSE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a B-cell malignancy characterized  by a variable clinical course. Several parameters have prognostic capabilities but are associated with altered response to therapy in only a small subset of patients. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We used gene expression profiling methods to generate predictors of therapy response and prognosis. Genomic signatures that reflect progressive disease and responses to chemotherapy or chemoimmunotherapy were created using cancer cell lines and patient leukemia cell samples. We validated and applied these three signatures to independent clinical data from four cohorts, representing a total of 301 CLL patients. RESULTS: A genomic signature of prognosis created from patient leukemic cell gene expression data coupled with clinical parameters significantly differentiated patients with stable disease from those with progressive disease in the training  data set. The progression signature was validated in two independent data sets, showing a capacity to accurately identify patients at risk for progressive disease. In addition, genomic signatures that predict response to chlorambucil or pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab were generated and could accurately  distinguish responding and nonresponding CLL patients. CONCLUSIONS: Thus, microarray analysis of CLL lymphocytes can be used to refine prognosis and predict response to different therapies. These results have implications for standard and investigational therapeutics in CLL patients."
410	"Marrow stromal cells (MSCs) provide important survival and drug resistance signals to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells, but current models to analyze CLL-MSC interactions are heterogeneous. Therefore, we tested different human and murine MSC lines and primary human MSCs for their ability to protect CLL cells from spontaneous and drug-induced apoptosis. Our results show that both human and murine MSCs are equally effective in protecting CLL cells from fludarabine-induced apoptosis. This protective effect was sustained over a wide range of CLL-MSC ratios (5:1 to 100:1), and the levels of protection were reproducible in 4 different laboratories. Human and murine MSCs also protected CLL cells from dexamethasone- and cyclophosphamide-induced apoptosis. This protection required cell-cell contact and was virtually absent when CLL cells were separated from the MSCs by micropore filters. Furthermore, MSCs maintained Mcl-1 and protected CLL cells from spontaneous and fludarabine-induced Mcl-1 and  PARP cleavage. Collectively, these studies define common denominators for CLL cocultures with MSCs. They also provide a reliable, validated tool for future investigations into the mechanism of MSC-CLL cross talk and for drug testing in a more relevant fashion than the commonly used suspension cultures."
412	"Several studies indicate that the development of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) may be influenced by antigen recognition through the clonotypic B-cell receptors (BCRs). However, it is still unclear whether antigen involvement is restricted to the malignant transformation phase or whether the putative antigen(s) may continuously trigger the CLL clone and affect not only the progenitor cell but also the leukemic cells themselves. To address this issue, we conducted a large-scale subcloning study of rearranged immunoglobulin heavy variable (IGHV) genes of diverse mutational status from 71 CLL cases (total, 1496 subcloned sequences), belonging to both the common IgM/IgD variant and the rare IgG-positive variant. Although most cases showed no or low levels of intraclonal  diversification (ID), we report intense ID in the IGHV genes of selected cases, especially a subgroup of 13 IgG-switched cases expressing stereotyped, mutated IGHV4-34 rearrangements (subset 4). We demonstrate that the ID evident in subset  4 cases cannot be attributed to IGHV4-34 usage, IGHV gene-mutated status, class-switch recombination, or BCR stereotypy in general; rather, it represents a unique phenomenon strongly correlated with the distinctive BCR of subset 4. In such cases, the observed ID patterns may imply a stereotyped response to an active, ongoing interaction with antigen(s)."
414	"Premature termination codon (PTC) mutations are due to insertion or deletion of nucleotides causing a frameshift and premature termination codon in RNA. These transcripts are degraded by the nonsense-mediated decay pathway and have a very short half-life. We used a microarray technique to screen for genes that up-regulate their RNA signal upon nonsense-mediated decay pathway blockade in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) specimens and identified an E-cadherin transcript with PTC. Sequencing revealed an aberrant E-cadherin transcript lacking exon 11, resulting in a frameshift and PTC. The aberrant E-cadherin transcript was also identified in normal B cells, but occurred at a much lower level compared with CLL cells. In CLL specimens, E-cadherin expression was depressed more than 50% in 62% cases (relative to normal B cells). By real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis, the relative amounts of wild-type transcript  inversely correlated with amounts of aberrant transcript (P = .018). Ectopic expression of E-cadherin in CLL specimens containing high amounts of aberrant transcript resulted in down-regulation of the wnt-beta-catenin pathway reporter,  a pathway known to be up-regulated in CLL. Our data point to a novel mechanism of E-cadherin gene inactivation, with CLL cells displaying a higher proportion of aberrant nonfunctional transcripts and resulting up-regulation of the wnt-beta-catenin pathway."
415	"Pim kinases are involved in B-cell development and are overexpressed in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We hypothesized that Pim kinase inhibition would affect B-cell survival. Identified from a screen of imidazo[1,2-b]pyridazine compounds, SGI-1776 inhibits Pim-1, Pim-2, and Pim-3. Treatment of CLL cells with SGI-1776 results in a concentration-dependent induction of apoptosis. To elucidate its mechanism of action, we evaluated the effect of SGI-1776 on Pim kinase function. Unlike in replicating cells, phosphorylation of traditional Pim-1 kinase targets, phospho-Bad (Ser112) and histone H3 (Ser10), and cell-cycle proteins were unaffected by SGI-1776, suggesting an alternative mechanism in CLL. Protein levels of total c-Myc as well as phospho-c-Myc(Ser62), a Pim-1 target site, were decreased after SGI-1776 treatment. Levels of antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), XIAP, and proapoptotic Bak and Bax were unchanged; however, a significant reduction in Mcl-1 was observed that was not caused by caspase-mediated cleavage of Mcl-1 protein. The mechanism of decline in Mcl-1 was at the RNA level and was correlated with inhibition of global RNA synthesis. Consistent with a decline in  new RNA synthesis, MCL-1 transcript levels were decreased after treatment with SGI-1776. These data suggest that SGI-1776 induces apoptosis in CLL and that the  mechanism involves Mcl-1 reduction."
418	"A case-control study of adult-onset leukemia was conducted in Bangkok, Thailand to explore the contribution of cellular telephone use and other factors to the etiology of the disease; 180 cases (87 acute myeloblastic leukemia, 40 acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 44 chronic myelogenous leukemia, eight chronic lymphocytic leukemia, one unclassified acute leukemia) were compared with 756 age- and sex-matched hospital controls. Data were obtained by interview; odds ratios (ORs) were estimated by unconditional logistic regression. There was no clear association with cellular telephone phone use, but durations were relatively short (median 24-26 months), and there was a suggestion that risk may  be increased for those with certain usage practices (ORs, 1.8-3.0 with lower confidence intervals >1.0) and those who used GSM service (OR, 2.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-4.0). Myeloid leukemia (acute and chronic combined) was  associated with benzene (OR, 3.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.3-11), a nonspecific group of other solvents (2.3; 1.1-4.9), occupational pesticides that were mostly  unspecified (3.8; 2.1-7.1), and working with or near powerlines (4.3; 1.3-15). No associations were found for diagnostic X-rays, cigarette smoking, or other occupational exposures."
419	"B-CLL is the most frequent type of leukemia in the Western countries. The disease, common among the elderly, follows a variable course in terms of survival time and symptoms. There is evidence that the accumulation of lymphocytes in peripheral blood and bone marrow is due to a cell resistance to apoptosis rather  than to highly proliferative cells. Genetic mechanisms that lead to the development and progression of disease are mainly unknown, although a number of prognostically and diagnostically important genetic markers have been identified. The aim of this study is to investigate the gene expression profile, by a specific chip for microarray analysis, in B-CLL lymphocytes with regard to factors involved in apoptosis cascade, signal transduction, purine metabolism enzymes, interleukin expression, enzymes involved in the responses to oxidative stress. We found relevant results in a set of 19 of the 57 genes considered. IMP  dehydrogenase, adenine phosphoribosyltransferase, adenylosuccinate lyase, adenylate kinase, ADORA1, G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 6, Bcl-2-like 1 isoform 2, caspase 6, and 8 were found underexpressed; while ADORA3, Gars-Airs-Gart, adenylate kinase 3, adenylate deaminase, NMN adenylyltransferase, CD26, CD38, interleukins 18 and 4 were found overexpressed. The microarray technique is a powerful method for identification of potential important diagnostic and prognostic markers, besides giving prominence to genes candidate for further studies."
420	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) follows a heterogeneous clinical course, for which several biological markers may predict clinical outcome. Cytogenetic aberrations are considered major prognostic indicators for predicting the survival of CLL patients. Given the difficulties in obtaining abnormal metaphases in CLL, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with specific probes  is generally used to detect the most frequent abnormalities. To determine the best strategy for identifying cytogenetic abnormalities, we compared results obtained by FISH analysis on peripheral blood mononuclear cells with those obtained by FISH after culture with mitogens. We studied 46 CLL patients selected from two different institutions. The most frequent structural aberrations leading to loss of genetic material were loss of the 13q14 region, in 32 cases (70%), and loss of TP53 in 11 cases (24%). Of the 46 cases patients, 10 patients (21.7%) had deletion of the ATM locus at 11q22 and 8 patients (17%) had trisomy 12. Results could be interpreted as discordant in four cases in which the abnormal clone was  small and both values were around the threshold. FISH performed on stimulated cells detected the same frequency of abnormalities as FISH performed without culture. This equivalence between the two techniques allows performing both conventional cytogenetic and FISH analyses on the same sample."
421	"Pyrrolo-1,5-benzoxazepine-15 (PBOX-15) is a novel microtubule depolymerization agent that induces cell cycle arrest and subsequent apoptosis in a number of cancer cell lines. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by clonal  expansion of predominately nonproliferating mature B cells. Here, we present data suggesting PBOX-15 is a potential therapeutic agent for CLL. We show activity of  PBOX-15 in samples taken from a cohort of CLL patients (n = 55) representing both high-risk and low-risk disease. PBOX-15 exhibited cytotoxicity in CLL cells (n =  19) in a dose-dependent manner, with mean IC(50) of 0.55 micromol/L. PBOX-15 significantly induced apoptosis in CLL cells (n = 46) including cells with poor prognostic markers: unmutated IgV(H) genes, CD38 and zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) expression, and fludarabine-resistant cells with chromosomal deletions in 17p. In addition, PBOX-15 was more potent than fludarabine in inducing apoptosis in fludarabine-sensitive cells. Pharmacologic inhibition and small interfering RNA knockdown of caspase-8 significantly inhibited PBOX-15-induced apoptosis. Pharmacologic inhibition of c-jun NH(2)-terminal kinase inhibited PBOX-15-induced apoptosis in mutated IgV(H) and ZAP-70(-) CLL cells but not in unmutated IgV(H) and ZAP-70(+) cells. PBOX-15 exhibited selective cytotoxicity in CLL cells compared with normal hematopoietic cells. Our data suggest that PBOX-15 represents a novel class of agents that are toxic toward both high-risk and low-risk CLL cells. The need for novel treatments is acute in CLL, especially for the subgroup of patients with poor clinical outcome and drug-resistant disease. This study identifies a novel agent with significant clinical potential."
422	"OBJECTIVES: To investigate the pattern of glutamate dehydrogenase (GLDH) activity, GLUD1 and GLUD2 expressions in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of untreated B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) in healthy individuals (HI) and patients with infectious mononucleosis (IM). DESIGN AND METHODS: GLDH activity was determined in a supernatant obtained from pelleted PBMC. GLUD1 and GLUD2 mRNA expression was determined using a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. CD19(+) B cells from PBMC were  purified by using positive selection. RESULTS: The highest GLDH activity was found in PBMC of the B-CLL group followed  by the HI group and IM group. The PBMC GLDH activity was higher in 60% of the B-CLL patients according to the established reference interval for our HI (2.17-5.70 microkat/g protein). The greater GLDH activity was also found in the CD19(+) cell preparation of the B-CLL patients (two of the three) but not in HI (n=3). The median value of GLUD1 expression was highest in the IM group (n=11), followed by the HI (n=14) and B-CLL groups (n=59) (median 4.69/3.78, P<0.005 and  4.69/2.91, P<0.0005, respectively). GLUD2 expression was not significantly different between groups. CONCLUSIONS: The increased GLDH activity is specific for the PBMC of B-CLL patients. The GLUD1 but not the GLUD2 gene expression pattern is different between the PBMC of IM and B-CLL patients."
423	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To analyze recent scientific contributions correlating genetic lesions with clinical features in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). RECENT FINDINGS: Genetic abnormalities are increasingly important to understand not only CLL biology but also other aspects such as its epidemiology, diagnosis,  prognosis, and clinical evolution. SUMMARY: Genetic abnormalities provide important clues in understanding the clinical and biologic heterogeneity of CLL, assessing the individual risk of each patient with this form of leukemia and also predicting response to therapy."
424	"BACKGROUND: ZAP-70 provides an important prognostic information in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); however, the most appropriate antibody clone and way  of analysis have not yet been defined. METHODS: We determined ZAP-70 expression in 1,229 patients with CLL using the SBZAP clone by applying three different ways of analysis (% positive B-cells, mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) in B-cells, MFI ratio T-cells:B-cells). RESULTS: ZAP-70 expression was related to somatic hypermutation status of IgVH genes for all three ways of analysis (P < 0.0001 each). The strongest correlation was found for MFI ratio (r = -0.475, P < 0.0001); cases with mutated and unmutated IgVH status significantly differed in their mean MFI ratio (6.33 vs. 3.34, P < 0.0001). ZAP-70 expression was weaker in sole del(13q) (5.44 vs. 4.44,  P = 0.001) and stronger in del(11q) (3.31 vs. 5.29, P < 0.0001) and del(6q) (3.29 vs. 5.18, P = 0.005). MFI ratio was significantly related to time to therapy (P = 0.004, RR = 0.79) in 221 evaluable cases. Multivariate analysis proved MFI ratio  (P = 0.043, RR = 0.64) and CD38 (P = 0.047, RR = 1.20 per 10%) as only parameters independently related to time to therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Determination of ZAP-70 expression using SBZAP and applying MFI ratio T-cells:B-cells results in significant relations to IgVH mutation status, cytogenetics, and outcome and should be further analyzed and considered for routine application in CLL."
425	"OBJECTIVE: To review FDA approved and other potential uses of Ontak, denileukin diftitox. METHODS: Information was obtained via the internet and a journal literature review. RESULTS: In 1999, the FDA approved the use of denileukin diftitox for patients with persistent or relapsed CD25-positive cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), but Ontak has been reported to be an effective therapy for other neoplastic and non-neoplastic conditions. Oncological uses include therapy for CD25-negative T-cell lymphoma, recurrent and refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma (NHL), and human T-cell lymphotropic virus- 1 (HTLV-1)-associated adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL). Potential additional uses of Ontak include: therapy of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) and autoimmune conditions, including psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus, scleroderma and vasculitis. Denileukin diftitox's effect has also been studied for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and HIV, but conclusive data are still pending. CONCLUSION: There are many potential uses for denileukin diftitox, in both malignant and benign disorders. More human trials are needed to demonstrate further efficacy for a wide range of diseases."
428	"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) has been associated with several hematologic malignancies such as Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, but it is rare in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Here, we report a 7-year-old girl with chronic ITP during early intensive phase of chemotherapy for ALL. She underwent splenectomy because thrombocytopenia had persisted even after treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), steroids, vincristine, rituximab, and anti-D antibody. After splenectomy, her platelet count had recovered, and maintenance therapy could be resumed with a support of IVIG. To our knowledge, this is the first child case of chronic ITP during chemotherapy for ALL and splenectomy was effective in this patient."
429	"Cladribine is approved to be used in 24-hour continuous infusion for the treatment of low-grade lymphoma by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that the antitumor activity of cladribine by 2-hour infusion should be comparable to that given by continuous infusion. The safety and anti-tumor activity of short infusion of cladribine was shown in hairy cell leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma  in Europe. We therefore underwent a pilot study to confirm the safety and efficacy of cladribine given by 2-hour infusion for Japanese patients with relapsed or refractory indolent B-cell lymphoma. Cladribine at a dose of 0.09 mg/kg was administered in 2-hour intravenous infusion for 5 consecutive days. The treatment was repeated at a 28-day interval for at least 2 cycles, and its efficacy and toxicity were investigated. Fourteen patients were entered into this study. Eight patients (57%) responded to cladribine, including 2 (14%) complete response (CR) and 6 (43%) partial response (PR). The median duration of response  was 20+ and 21+ months for CR, and 12 months ranging from 3 to 34 months for PR,  respectively. Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia and lymphocytopenia occurred in 43% and 71% of patients, respectively, but there was no febrile neutropenia or opportunistic infection associated with cladribine treatment. No other adverse events greater than grade 3 were encountered. The tumor response and degree of toxicity were comparable with those observed in cladribine treatment given by continuous infusion at a same dose. Cladribine can be administered in 2-hour infusion in an outpatient clinic and is therefore quite convenient for patients."
430	"PURPOSE: A randomized trial of oblimersen plus fludarabine/cyclophosphamide (OBL-FC; n = 120) versus FC (n = 121) was conducted in patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The primary end point was met: the complete response (CR) rate, defined as complete or nodular partial response, was significantly greater with OBL-FC than with FC (17% v 7%; P = .025). Among patients with CR, response duration was significantly longer with OBL-FC than with FC (median not reached; > 36 months v 22 months; P = .03). Maximum benefit with OBL-FC, including a four-fold increase in CR rate and a survival benefit with 3 years of follow-up (hazard ratio, 0.53; P = .05), was observed in patients with fludarabine-sensitive disease. We evaluated long-term survival and poststudy CLL therapy among all randomly assigned patients. METHODS: Poststudy CLL treatment information was collected. Patients were observed for survival for up to 5 years from the date of random assignment. RESULTS: Poststudy CLL treatment was balanced between arms. Intent-to-treat analysis of 5-year survival showed no significant between-treatment difference (hazard ratio, 0.87; P = .34). Among the greater than 40% of patients with complete or partial remission, a significant 5-year survival benefit was observed with OBL-FC (hazard ratio, 0.60; P = .038). Among patients with fludarabine-sensitive disease who had previously demonstrated maximum benefit with OBL-FC, the previously observed survival benefit improved: a 50% reduction in the risk of death was observed (P = .004). CONCLUSION: In relapsed/refractory CLL, OBL combined with FC offers patients who  achieve complete or partial remission, as well as those who have fludarabine-sensitive disease, a significant survival benefit."
433	"A number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) have been implicated to impact  upon the disease course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, few of these association studies could be confirmed in independent studies in the past.  Recently, three independent studies did not confirm the prognostic impact of a new functional SNP in the BCL2 gene (-938C>A) described by Nückel et al. For this reason we genotyped an independent group of patients with CLL (n = 271) with mature follow up and detailed analysis of molecular genetics. The genotype distribution of this BCL2 polymorphism did not differ from that described in the  original work. However, genotypes were not associated with time to first treatment (TFT) and overall survival (OS) in univariate or multivariate analysis  in the current cohort. Comparing the characteristics of the two study cohorts in  more detail we found differences between the two cohorts demonstrating a potentially more aggressive second study cohort. However, TFT and OS in patients  with CLL according to Binet A did not differ significantly depending on the genotype. Our findings underscore the need for optimally matched patient cohorts  in replication studies. The study re-emphasizes the need for large cohorts and validation in independent data sets before firm conclusions can be made about genotype-phenotype associations."
435	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a malignancy of mature B-lymphocytes that manifests in a variety of clinical courses. The accumulation of CLL-cells is primarily caused by defective apoptosis; however, a higher proliferative capacity has also been found to correlate with poorer prognostic factors. Proliferating CLL-cells are confined to specialized structures called pseudofollicles, which contain CLL-cells, T-lymphocytes, and stromal cells. We established an in vitro model for pseudofollicles to characterize the behavior of CLL-cells in relation to clinical courses with different outcomes. Only CLL-cells from progressive clinical cases were inducible to proliferate by a combination of soluble CD40L/IL-2/IL-10 in co-culture with stromal cells. Proliferating CLL-cells showed a higher and more extensive expression of antigens, which are important in T-B-cell interactions such as CD40, MHC II, and adhesion molecules. IL-4 increased interferon regulatory factor-4 expression and induced a specific immunophenotype, which may imply plasmacytic differentiation. Furthermore, it was shown that co-cultured stromal cells protected CLL-cells from apoptosis. CLL-cells from clinically indolent cases had a far worse survival rate in medium  than the cells from poor prognostic cases. Thus, we can assume that not only a different resistance to apoptosis, but also proliferation contributes to the progression of CLL resulting in bone marrow failure with thrombocytopenia and anemia."
437	"As chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by overexpression of pro-survival BCL2, compounds that mimic its physiological antagonists, the BH3-only proteins, may have a role in treatment of this disease. ABT-737 is a BH3 mimetic compound that selectively targets BCL2 and BCLX(L). In the present work,  we report that ABT-737 is highly effective (LC(50)<50 nM) as a single agent against most (21/30) primary CLL samples, but that a sizable minority is relatively insensitive. In vitro sensitivity to ABT-737 could not be simply predicted by the patients' clinical features, including response to prior therapy or known prognostic markers (CD38 expression, 17p deletion), or the relative expression of BCL2 family proteins (BCL2, MCL1, BAX, BIM). Strikingly, co-incubation with cytotoxic agents (dexamethasone, etoposide, fludarabine, doxorubicin) sensitized most CLL samples to ABT-737, but this could not be predicted by responses to either ABT-737 or the cytotoxic agent alone. Of 17 samples least sensitive to ABT-737, 13 were sensitized by co-treatment with at least one cytotoxic agent. These data indicate that combination of ABT-737 with a second anti-leukemic agent would improve response rates and suggest a potential role for combination therapies that include BH3 mimetics for the treatment of this disease."
438	"The two B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma entities, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), show recurrent chromosomal gains of 3q25-q29, 12q13-q14 and 18q21-q22. The pathomechanisms affected by these aberrations are not understood. The aim of this study was to identify genes, located within these gained regions, which control cell death and cell survival of MCL and CLL cancer cells. Blood samples collected from 18 patients with CLL and 6 patients with MCL, as well as 6 cell lines representing both malignancies were analyzed by gene expression profiling. By a comparison of genomic DNA and gene expression, 72 candidate genes were identified. We performed a limited RNA interference screening with these candidates to identify genes affecting cell survival. CCDC50 (coiled coil domain containing protein 50), SERPINI2 and SMARCC2 mediated a reduction of cell viability in primary CLL cells as well as in cell lines. Gene knockdown and a nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) reporter gene assay revealed that CCDC50 is required for survival in MCL and CLL cells and controls NFkappaB signaling."
439	"Rituximab-containing regimens are becoming a therapeutic standard in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), so that a validation of flow cytometric minimal residual disease (MRD) quantification (MRD flow) in the presence of this antibody is necessary. We therefore compared results obtained by real-time quantitative (RQ)-PCR to MRD flow in 530 samples from 69 patients randomized to receive chemotherapy or chemotherapy plus rituximab. Quantitative MRD levels assessed by  both techniques were closely correlated irrespective of therapy (r=0.95). The sensitivity and specificity of MRD flow was not influenced by the presence of rituximab. With 58.9% positive and 26.4% negative samples by both techniques, 85.3% of assessments (452/530) were qualitatively concordant between MRD flow and RQ-PCR. Discordant samples were typically negative by MRD flow and simultaneously positive close to the detection limit of the PCR assays, indicating a higher sensitivity of PCR for very low MRD levels. However, 93.8% of all samples were concordantly classified by both methods using a threshold of 10(-4) to determine  MRD positivity. MRD flow and PCR are equally effective for MRD quantification in  rituximab-treated CLL patients within a sensitivity range of up to 10(-4), whereas PCR is more sensitive for detecting MRD below that level."
440	"The consensus views of an expert roundtable meeting are presented as updated management guidelines for using alemtuzumab in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Since the publication of previous management guidelines in 2004, clinical experience with alemtuzumab has grown significantly, especially regarding its efficacy and safety, management of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation, identification of patient subgroups likely to benefit from alemtuzumab therapy and subcutaneous administration of alemtuzumab. The updated recommendations include (1) alemtuzumab monotherapy can be safely used as first-line therapy; (2) suitable patient subgroups for alemtuzumab therapy include elderly patients, patients with 17p deletion, patients with refractory autoimmune cytopenias and patients with profound pancytopenia at baseline due to heavily infiltrated bone marrow; (3) alemtuzumab treatment should be continued for 12 weeks (36 doses) whenever possible, and bone marrow examination may be considered at week 12 to evaluate response; (4) monitoring CMV reactivation by weekly PCR is mandated during therapy; when CMV reactivation becomes symptomatic or viremia increases, alemtuzumab therapy should be interrupted and anti-CMV therapy started; (5) subcutaneous administration is safe, easy to perform and appears equally effective compared with intravenous infusion and (6) our strong recommendation is that alemtuzumab combination therapy and consolidation therapy shall not be used  outside carefully controlled clinical studies."
441	"PURPOSE: To determine the feasibility of post-gadolinium three-dimensional gradient-echo (3D-GE) sequence for the evaluation of the pulmonary arterial vasculature in patients with suspected pulmonary embolism (PE) and in patients with a variety of other disease processes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-six consecutive patients (18 females, 8 males; mean age+/-S.D., 46.6+/-21.1 years) who underwent chest magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including post-gadolinium 3D-GE sequence for the evaluation of PE (Group A, n=13) and a variety of other disease processes (Group B, n=13) were included in the study. Post-gadolinium 3D-GE MR sequences were retrospectively, independently and blindly evaluated by two reviewers for the image quality of pulmonary arterial vasculature, and findings of PE and other disease processes. Clinical and imaging follow-up data for all patients were obtained. Interobserver agreement was calculated by kappa statistics. RESULTS: All central and lobar pulmonary arteries, 71.4-89.6% of segmental arteries and 46.7-52.7% of subsegmental arterial units in both groups were visualized with sufficient diagnostic image quality on post-gadolinium 3D-GE sequences. PE involving lobar and segmental arteries was diagnosed in two patients in each group. Other disease processes including pneumonia, lung nodules, superior vena cava stenosis, lung metastases, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and aortic aneurysm were detected in 10 of 26 patients. There was good to excellent interobserver agreement (0.73 to 1.00) for all findings. CONCLUSION: Post-gadolinium 3D-GE sequence may be an alternative technique for the visualization of central, lobar and segmental arteries, and may diagnose PE and other pathologies involving the chest in different patient populations."
442	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable disease characterized by failure of mature lymphocytes to undergo apoptosis. CLL cells are inherently resistant to tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL). Pretreatment with histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) sensitizes CLL cells to  TRAIL-mediated apoptosis primarily via TRAIL-R1 and offers a novel approach for the therapy of CLL and other malignancies. Depsipeptide (romidepsin), a HDACi, did not enhance TRAIL binding to TRAIL-R1, TRAIL-R1 aggregation, or internalization of TRAIL-R1, but it enhanced Fas-associated death domain protein  (FADD) recruitment to TRAIL-R1 in the death-inducing signaling complex. Cotreatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), a protein kinase C (PKC)  activator, dramatically inhibited the HDACi-mediated increase in FADD recruitment and sensitization to TRAIL-induced apoptosis and both of these were reversed by PKC inhibitors. Thus, enhanced FADD recruitment is a critical step in HDACi-mediated sensitization of CLL cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis and this step is differentially affected by HDACi and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Using biotinylated TRAIL and streptactin-tagged TRAIL, we have identified several novel TRAIL receptor interacting proteins, including PKCbeta, lymphocyte-specific protease-1, Lyn, and Syk. These molecules may play an as yet unappreciated role in TRAIL signaling in CLL cells and inhibition of one or more of these kinases/phosphatases may provide a novel target to overcome TRAIL resistance."
443	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a slow-growing hematologic malignancy and the most common type of leukemia in the western world. The lifetime risk for developing CLL is 1 in 216 men and women. Unfortunately, CLL is considered incurable with the chemotherapeutic agents available today. Bendamustine is a new agent that was recently added to the available regimens for the treatment of CLL. It was also recently approved for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Its mechanism of action is unknown, but it contains an alkylating group similar to that of other bifunctional alkylating agents such as chlorambucil, and it also contains a benzimidazole central ring thought to exhibit antipurine-like properties. The United States Food and Drug Administration approved bendamustine  based on results from an international phase III study of CLL in which bendamustine was compared with chlorambucil in treatment-naïve patients. Ongoing  clinical trials are assessing the utility of bendamustine in combination with other agents for the treatment of CLL, as well as for other malignancies."
444	"Pneumocystis pneumonia is an increasingly recognized threat in non-HIV immunosuppressed patients and is associated with worse outcomes compared to HIV-infected patients. The preferred first line treatment is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole; however, second line treatments for those intolerant of this regimen have been primarily studied in patients with acquired  immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). We report a case of Pneumocystis pneumonia in a 75-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and a history of sulfa allergy successfully treated with clindamycin-primaquine."
446	"Chromosomal abnormalities, immunoglobulin heavy chain variable-region (IGHV) gene mutation status, and zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) expression levels have independent prognostic relevance in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); however,  their concordance is variable. Because deregulation of microRNAs has been linked  to disease initiation and progression in CLL, we studied the value of the microRNAs as a signature for CLL patients with specific chromosomal abnormalities. We identified 32 microRNAs able to discriminate the 11q deletion,  17p deletion, trisomy 12, 13q deletion, and normal karyotype cytogenetic subgroups. The expression values of 9 among the 32 microRNAs (miR-151-3p, miR-34a, miR-29c, miR-29b, miR-155, miR-148a, miR-146a, miR-146b5p, and miR-640)  were correlated with gene expression data from the same samples to assess their biologic impact on CLL. In this study we also found that IGHV unmutated, high expression of ZAP-70 protein, and low expression of the miR-223, miR-29c, miR-29b, and miR-181 family were strongly associated with disease progression in  CLL cases harboring 17p deletion, whereas in those harboring trisomy 12 only high expression of the miR-181a, among the analyzed parameters, suggested more aggressive disease. Thus, the use of the microRNA-based classifications may yield clinically useful biomarkers of tumor behavior in CLL."
447	"Understanding how the immune system in patients with cancer interacts with malignant cells is critical for the development of successful immunotherapeutic strategies. We studied peripheral blood from newly diagnosed patients with acute  myeloid leukemia (AML) to assess the impact of this disease on the patients' T cells. The absolute number of peripheral blood T cells is increased in AML compared with healthy controls. An increase in the absolute number of CD3+56+ cells was also noted. Gene expression profiling on T cells from AML patients compared with healthy donors demonstrated global differences in transcription suggesting aberrant T-cell activation patterns. These gene expression changes differ from those observed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), indicating the  heterogeneous means by which different tumors evade the host immune response. However, in common with CLL, differentially regulated genes involved in actin cytoskeletal formation were identified, and therefore the ability of T cells from AML patients to form immunologic synapses was assessed. Although AML T cells could form conjugates with autologous blasts, their ability to form immune synapses and recruit phosphotyrosine signaling molecules to the synapse was significantly impaired. These findings identify T-cell dysfunction in AML that may contribute to the failure of a host immune response against leukemic blasts."
450	"The microRNAs miR-15a and miR-16-1 are downregulated in multiple tumor types and  are frequently deleted in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), myeloma and mantle  cell lymphoma. Despite their abundance in most cells the transcriptional regulation of miR-15a/16-1 remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that the putative tumor suppressor DLEU2 acts as a host gene of these microRNAs. Mature miR-15a/miR-16-1 are produced in a Drosha-dependent process from DLEU2 and binding of the Myc oncoprotein to two alterative DLEU2 promoters represses both the host gene transcript and levels of mature miR-15a/miR-16-1. In line with a functional role for DLEU2 in the expression of the microRNAs, the miR-15a/miR-16-1 locus is retained in four CLL cases that delete both promoters of this gene and expression analysis indicates that this leads to functional loss of mature miR-15a/16-1. We additionally show that DLEU2 negatively regulates the  G1 Cyclins E1 and D1 through miR-15a/miR-16-1 and provide evidence that these oncoproteins are subject to miR-15a/miR-16-1-mediated repression under normal conditions. We also demonstrate that DLEU2 overexpression blocks cellular proliferation and inhibits the colony-forming ability of tumor cell lines in a miR-15a/miR-16-1-dependent way. Together the data illuminate how inactivation of  DLEU2 promotes cell proliferation and tumor progression through functional loss of miR-15a/miR-16-1."
451	"MicroRNAs (miRNA) play a key role in cellular regulation and, if deregulated, in  the development of neoplastic disorders including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). RNAs from primary cells of 50 treatment-naive CLL patients and peripheral  B cells of 14 healthy donors were applied to miRNA expression profiling using bead chip technology. In CLL cells, a set of 7 up- and 19 down-regulated miRNAs was identified. Among the miRNAs down-regulated in CLL cells, 6 of 10 miRNA promoters examined showed gain of methylation compared with normal B-cell controls. Subsequent target prediction of deregulated miRNAs revealed a highly significant binding prediction at the 3' untranslated region of the pleomorphic adenoma gene 1 (PLAG1) oncogene. Luciferase reporter assays including site-directed mutagenesis of binding sites revealed a significant regulation of PLAG1 by miR-181a, miR-181b, miR-107, and miR-424. Although expression of PLAG1 mRNA was not affected, PLAG1 protein expression was shown to be significantly elevated in CLL cells compared with the levels in healthy donor B cells. In summary, we could demonstrate disruption of miRNA-mediated translational control, partly due to epigenetic transcriptional silencing of miRNAs, with subsequent overexpression of the oncogenic transcription factor PLAG1 as a putative novel mechanism of CLL pathogenesis."
452	"Up to now, no lentiviral vector (LV) tool existed to govern efficient and stable  gene delivery into quiescent B lymphocytes, which hampers its application in gene therapy and immunotherapy areas. Here, we report that LVs incorporating measles virus (MV) glycoproteins, H and F, on their surface allowed transduction of 50% of quiescent B cells, which are not permissive to VSVG-LV transduction. This high transduction level correlated with B-cell SLAM expression and was not at cost of  cell-cycle entry or B-cell activation. Moreover, the naive and memory phenotypes  of transduced resting B cells were maintained. Importantly, H/F-LVs represent the first tool permitting stable transduction of leukemic cancer cells, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, blocked in G(0)/G(1) early phase of the cell  cycle. Thus, H/F-LV transduction overcomes the limitations of current LVs by making B cell-based gene therapy and immunotherapy applications feasible. These new LVs will facilitate antibody production and the study of gene functions in these healthy and cancer immune cells."
453	"B- and T-lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA) is a lymphoid receptor that inhibits lymphocyte activation on interaction with its ligand, herpesvirus entry mediator  (HVEM). We developed monoclonal antibodies against BTLA and HVEM to study their expression using immunohistochemical and flow cytometric analyses in human tissues. In reactive lymph nodes, they were both expressed in interfollicular T cells and in B cells from mantle and marginal zones. Within germinal centers, B cells were negative, whereas T follicular helper (TFH) cells were BTLA+ and follicular dendritic cells were HVEM+. BTLA was strongly expressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (B-CLL/SLL, 19 of 19 positive) when compared with other small B-cell lymphomas, including follicular lymphoma (0 of 24 positive), mantle cell lymphoma (0 of 10 positive), and marginal zone lymphoma (0 of 5 positive). Our results suggest that down-regulation of the BTLA-HVEM pathway may be involved in germinal center B-cell activation. The specific high expression of BTLA in B-CLL/SLL represents a new potential diagnostic tool. The BTLA positivity of TFH cells may be a basis for designing future immunotherapies."
454	"OBJECTIVE: To introduce new parameters of diploid histogram of image DNA cytometry and new types of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs) and to validate resulting proliferative-kinetic index (PKI) in a prognostic study of patients with chronic leukemic lymphoproliferative disorders (CLLPD). STUDY DESIGN: A total of 413 smears of from various tumor mass compartments-bone  marrow, peripheral blood and lymph node-were analyzed in CLLPD as a whole, as well as separately in the B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia with variants (B-CLL+V). The analysis of the diploid histogram included percentage of cells at the peak of the DNA histogram and percentage of cells with lower and higher contents of DNA than cells at the peak. The new types of AgNORs were described as homogeneous, inhomogeneous and annular. RESULTS: The newly introduced parameters of DNA and AgNOR are significant predictors of survival. Based on the most representative AgNOR and DNA characteristics related to survival, the PKI score was calculated. The CLLPD and  B-CLL+V patients had a statistically significantly better prognosis when PKI was  < 4. CONCLUSION: PKIs have confirmed the hypothesis that different prognostic subgroups could be identified within the homogeneous groups of neoplasms with relatively low malignancy (CLLPD and B-CLL+V)."
455	"OBJECTIVE: To assess for chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (CLPD) using several diagnostic and prognostic parameters, including cell morphology, immunologic markers and molecular and cytogenetic investigations, some of which had not been used in the assessment of patients in India. STUDY DESIGN: This prospective study involved the analysis of peripheral blood and bone marrow (BM) aspirate morphology, BM infiltration pattern and lymphoid cell flow cytometry (FCM) in patients with CLPDs. These findings were compared with other disease parameters. RESULTS: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and hairy cell leukemia (HCL) were the most commonly encountered CLPDs among 91 CLPD patients. Seventy cases were diagnosed as CLL, 14 as HCL and 7 as miscellaneous. Sixty-nine CLL cases showed typical CLL immunophenotype. Thirteen HCL cases revealed typical HCL immunophenotype. Rai and Binet staging systems were applied, and the correlation  of various stages with other prognostic parameters like BM trephine biopsy patterns, CD38 positivity, serum lactic dehydrogenase level, lymphocyte doubling  time and Coomb's test was analyzed. BM infiltration pattern showed significant statistical correlation with staging systems. CONCLUSION: The advantage of FCM is being realized increasingly in India, therefore this study is likely to serve as a baseline data in our set-up."
456	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable disease with a natural history of increasing resistance to chemotherapy. A novel approach to overcome chemotherapy resistance may be targeting the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). PATIENTS AND METHODS: The involvement of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in the cell killing effect of xanthohumol (X) was examined in 18 patient samples. RESULTS: X-induced apoptosis of CLL cells was accompanied by the induction of glucose-regulated protein of 78 kDa (GRP78) and heat-shock protein of 70 kDa (Hsp70) protein levels and by sustained phosphorylation of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2alpha), suggesting the involvement of the ER stress transducer, the double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase (PKR)-like ER kinase (PERK). The X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA was spliced but no clear activation of activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) was observed. The proapoptotic outcome was further demonstrated by the up-regulation of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) homologous protein (CHOP), down-regulation of myeloid cell leukemia 1 (Mcl-1) and B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), cleavage of poly-(ADP)-ribose polymerase (PARP) and processing of caspase-3, -4 and -9. Furthermore, X showed proteasome inhibitory activity. CONCLUSION: X stimulates the proapoptotic arm of the UPR in ex vivo CLL cells, suggesting that ER stress may play an important role during X-induced apoptosis."
457	"A 68 year old female patient with history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, arterial hypertension and dyslipidemia came for evaluation since she is constantly aware of the beating of her heart. The echocardiogram showed an aneurysm of the non coronary Sinus of Valsalva. Chest computer tomography showed  an aneurysm of the Sinus of Valsalva measuring 5.5 cm of diameter. A sternotomy was performed with resection of aneurysm and replacement of the aortic valve. The postoperative course was uneventful."
458	"BACKGROUND: Radioimmunotherapy (RIT) with radio-labeled monoclonal antibodies to  CD20 produce a high response rate in patients with relapsed lymphoma. Use of this modality in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been hampered by the extensive marrow involvement seen in patients with CLL, which would produce a high risk for marrow aplasia after treatment with RIT. Patients with lymphoma and marrow involvement have been treated with RIT if involved marrow was less than 25% of the total marrow. Thus, we adapted this approach as consolidation therapy  in patients with CLL responding to chemoimmunotherapy. METHODS: Fourteen patients with relapsed CLL either in partial remission or in complete remission but with disease documented by flow cytometry were treated with (90)Y ibritumomab tiuxetan. RESULTS: One patient responded and achieved a complete remission but with residual disease detected by flow cytometry. Of note was that grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity was seen in 12 of the 13 (92%) evaluable patients, with grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia noted in 11 (85%) of the patients. In addition, myelosuppression was prolonged with a median duration of grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia of 37 days. Five patients had persistent thrombocytopenia 3 months post-therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Even in patients with CLL and limited marrow involvement, the use of RIT results in unacceptable hematologic toxicity."
460	"BACKGROUND: Most methods for estimation of rates of RNA production are not applicable in human in vivo clinical studies. We describe here an approach for measuring ribosomal RNA turnover in vivo using [6,6-(2)H(2)]-glucose as a precursor for de novo RNA synthesis. Because this method involves neither radioactivity nor toxic metabolites, it is suitable for human studies. METHODS: For method development in vitro, a lymphocyte cell line (PM1) was cultured in the presence of [6,6-(2)H(2)]-glucose. RNA was extracted, hydrolyzed  enzymatically to ribonucleosides, and derivatized to either the aldonitrile tetra-acetate or the pentafluoro triacetate derivative of the pentose before GC-MS. We identified optimum derivatization and analysis conditions and demonstrated quantitative incorporation of deuterium from glucose into RNA of dividing cells. RESULTS: Pilot clinical studies demonstrated the applicability of this approach to blood leukocytes and solid tissues. A patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia received [6,6-(2)H(2)]-glucose (1 g/kg) orally in aliquots administered  every 30 min for a period of 10 h. When we analyzed CD3(-) B cells that had been  purified by gradient centrifugation and magnetic-bead adhesion, we observed deuterium enrichment, a finding consistent with a ribosomal RNA production rate of about 7%/day, despite the slow division rates observed in concurrent DNA-labeling analysis. Similarly, in 2 patients with malignant infiltration of lymph nodes, administration of [6,6-(2)H(2)]-glucose (by intravenous infusion for 24 h) before excision biopsy allowed estimation of DNA and RNA turnover in lymph  node samples. CONCLUSIONS: Our study results demonstrate the proof-of-principle that deuterium-labeled glucose may be used to analyze RNA turnover, in addition to DNA production/cell proliferation, in clinical samples."
461	"In this study, IGHV1-69 gene usage was detected in 46 out of 379 cases (12%) of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In comparison with patients using alternative immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) genes, patients with IgHV1-69 CLLs more often presented at advanced stage, lacked somatic hypermutation (unmutated cases, 87% vs. 35%; P = .00001), and expressed unfavorable biologic characteristics. In 12 patients (26%), common amino acid motifs within the heavy-chain third complementarity-determining region were identified, allowing assignment to previously reported stereotyped subsets. In our study, treatment-free survival of patients with unmutated IGVH1-69 did not differ significantly from that of patients expressing unmutated alternative IGHV genes.  As such, IGHV1-69 gene usage per se did not seem to be predictive of progressive  disease, progression being primarily related to the unmutated IGHV profile."
462	"Infections continue to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), as therapeutic advances have occurred over the past several decades. The pathogenesis of infection in these patients is multifactorial, including inherent immune defects related to the primary disease  process, such as hypogammaglobulinemia, as well as therapy-related immunosuppression. A characteristic spectrum of infectious complications has been described for specific treatment agents. With chlorambucil, most infections are bacterial in origin, caused by common Gram-positive and -negative organisms. Recurrent infections are a hallmark, with the respiratory tract being the most common site of infection. The pathogenesis of infection with the purine analogues is related to the quantitative and qualitative T-cell abnormalities induced by these agents. Risk factors for infection identified in patients treated with fludarabine include advanced-stage disease, prior CLL therapy, response to therapy, elevated serum creatinine, hemoglobin < 12 g/dL, and decreased serum IgG. As compared with patients receiving chlorambucil, patients receiving fludarabine have more major infections and herpes virus infections. However, Pneumocystis, Aspergillus, and cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections are uncommon. The use of alemtuzumab is complicated by frequent opportunistic infections. CMV reactivation is especially problematic, occurring in 10%-25% of patients. For prevention of infection, the use of vaccinations and immunoglobulin replacement has been studied. Recommendations for prophylactic antimicrobial therapy have arisen from CLL treatment trials and anecdotal reports. As new treatment approaches are developed for CLL, one must consider not only the efficacy of these agents for disease response but also the effect on subsequent infectious complications. Infectious complications remain a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with CLL. We will review the pathogenesis as well as the spectrum of infections in these patients. We will also discuss approaches to  the prophylactic and therapeutic management of infections in these patients."
463	"Low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphomas were once considered as a heterogenous group of lymphomas characterized by an indolent clinical course. Today, low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphomas are classified as a group of 10 distinct entities, each characterized by unique clinico biologic features. Follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, and  marginal zone lymphoma are the most-investigated subtypes. Several studies have been performed to identify prognostic factors specific for each subtype in an effort to help clinicians in treatment decisions. The field of biologically specific associated parameters holds great potential but requires more research and work to produce translational results."
465	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a malignancy mainly affecting elderly people and is still considered an incurable disease. Despite recent advances in CLL treatment, relapse rates are high and often accompanied by the development of resistance towards conventional chemotherapy. Thus, new agents are needed for the treatment of these patients. In recent years, our understanding of the biological mechanisms driving CLL pathogenesis has considerably improved, and novel treatment strategies are arising. This review summarizes recent insights in CLL biology and describes several new agents and treatment strategies that are currently explored in pre-clinical studies and early-phase clinical trials."
466	"AIMS: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a heterogeneous malignancy that clinically ranges from indolent to rapidly progressive. CLL, like other cancers, can be affected by epigenetic alterations. MATERIALS & METHODS: A microarray discovery-based study was initiated to determine DNA methylation in CLL cases with a range of CD38 expression (1–92%). RESULTS: Many loci were either methylated or unmethylated across all CD38 levels, but differential methylation was also observed for some genes. Genomic sequencing of DLEU7 confirmed extensive cytosine methylation preferentially in patient samples with low CD38 expression, whereas NRP2, SFRP2 and ADAM12 were more commonly methylated in those with high CD38 expression. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that CLL is affected by CpG island methylation in some genes that segregate with CD38 expression levels, while most  others show similar methylation patterns across all levels. The CpG island methylation in certain functional gene groups and pathway-associated genes that are known to be deregulated in CLL provides additional insights into the CLL methylome and epigenetic contribution to cellular dysfunction. It will now be useful to investigate the effectiveness of epigenetic therapeutic reversal of these alterations to develop effective treatments for the disease."
467	"Mucous membrane plasmacytosis (MMP) is a rare idiopathic condition characterized  by infiltration of the mucosa by non neoplastic plasma cells. In this report we describe a case of mucous membrane plasmacytosis of the nose in a 72-year-old woman patient affected by B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Two different biopsies of the lesion showed diffuse plasma cell, lymphocyte and granulocyte infiltration compatible with granulation tissue. A complete exeresis  of the neoplasm was performed endoscopically without complications, allowing the  diagnosis of MMP; a monthly follow up was performed with no signs of local relapse 15 months after surgery. Topical steroid therapy with budesonide nasal spray was administered. There is no standardized treatment for MMP: we have reported good result of surgical approach in a unique case of nasal MMP in a patient with B-CLL; the relation between these two diseases deserves more studies."
468	"The objective of this study was to confirm previous results regarding the differential expression and prognostic significance of the circadian gene CRY1 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients and its relationship with the expression of other circadian genes and well-established prognostic markers. We also aimed to investigate whether the peripheral circadian machinery may be deregulated in CLL cells. The expression of CRY1, PER1, and PER2 was determined by real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in 116 CLL  patients. The expression at sequential time points over a 24-h period was measured in six CLL patients and six normal donors. We confirmed the differential expression of CRY1 in ZAP-70(+)/CD38(+) and ZAP-70(-)/CD38(-) CLL samples. Subgroups formed according to CRY1 expression levels differed significantly in time to treatment. This difference was even more pronounced for subgroups stratified by a CRY1 : PER2 expression ratio and the ratio was an independent prognostic marker in a multivariate model. Furthermore, our data indicate disturbances in the periodic expression of circadian genes in CLL cells. Because  of their role in the expression of cell cycle-related and DNA-damage response genes, we suggest that the deregulated expression of circadian genes may be linked to the molecular pathogenesis of CLL."
469	"We performed a multicentric study to assess the impact of two different culture procedures on the detection of chromosomal abnormalities in 217 consecutive unselected cases with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) referred for routine analysis either at the time of diagnosis (n = 172) or during disease evolution (n = 45). Parallel cultures of peripheral blood or bone marrow were set up with the  addition of either the conventional B-cell mitogen 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) or a combination of CpG oligonucleotide (CpG) and interleukin-2 (IL-2). Cytogenetic analyses were performed on both cultures. Clonal abnormalities were identified in 116 cases (53%). In 78 cases (36%), the aberrant clone was detected in both cultures. Among these, the percentages of aberrant metaphases were similar in both conditions in  17 cases, higher in the CpG/IL-2 culture in 43 cases, and higher in the TPA culture in 18 cases. Clonal aberrations were detected in only one culture, either in CpG/IL-2 or TPA in 33 (15%) and 5 (2%) cases, respectively. Taken together, abnormal karyotypes were observed in 51% with CpG/IL-2 and 38% with TPA (P < 0.0001). Application of FISH (n = 201) allowed the detection of abnormalities not visible by conventional cytogenetic analysis in 80 cases: del(13q) (n = 71), del(11q) (n = 5), +12 (n = 2), del(14q) (n = 1), and del(17p) (n = 1). In conclusion, our results confirm that CpG/IL-2 stimulation increases the detection rate of chromosomal abnormalities in CLL compared with TPA and that further improvement can be obtained by FISH. However, neither conventional cytogenetics nor FISH detected all aberrations, demonstrating the complementary nature of these techniques."
471	"We investigated whether a previous diagnosis of non-melanoma skin cancer among chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients is a predictor of poor outcome. Using the Swedish Cancer Registry, we conducted a population-based study to evaluate the survival patterns among chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with and without non-melanoma skin cancer. Cox proportional hazards regression models were used and Kaplan-Meier curves were constructed. Of a total of 12,041 chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases identified, 236 cases, including 111 squamous cell cancer, had a prior history of non-melanoma skin cancer. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with a prior history of non-melanoma skin cancer had a 1.29-fold (95% CI 1.10-1.52; p=0.0024) increased risk of dying; and those with a  history of squamous cell cancer had a further elevated 1.86-fold (95% CI 1.46-2.36; p<0.0001) risk of dying. Kaplan-Meier plots showed that patients with  a history of non-melanoma skin cancer, particularly those with squamous cell cancer, had significantly poorer survival than chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients without non-melanoma skin cancer (p<0.0001; log-rank test). Non-melanoma skin cancer may be a novel clinical predictor of worse chronic lymphocytic leukemia outcome."
472	"There has been considerable progress in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) during last 10 years. Purine analogs and monoclonal antibodies have enabled the shift from purely palliative treatment to intensive regimens aiming at complete remissions and possible prolongation of survival. Many patients have now been shown to achieve molecular responses in addition to their  hematological remission. Despite this success, virtually all patients with CLL will eventually relapse and will become refractory to treatment. Allogeneic stem  cell transplantation offers a chance of definite cure but is feasible in a minority of patients only. Therefore, considerable effort has been devoted to the further development of more conventional CLL management that is applicable to patient population generally affected by the disease. Emerging treatment concepts include novel combination of well-know agents such as rituximab and chlorambucil, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and alemtuzumab, FCR with mitoxantrone amongst many. Consolidation regimens using mainly alemtuzumab are also increasingly used  but are associated with a major increase in severe infections. High-dose steroids in combination with rituximab or alemtuzumab represent a promising option for refractory patients. Modern chemoimmunotherapy with the FCR regimen has also been tested in early stage patients with unfavourable prognostic factors. Finally, a there are a wide variety of novel drugs including bendamustine, a unique cytostatic with combined properties of an alkylating agent and purine analog, the monoclonal antibodies anti-CD20 ofatumumab and the anti-CD23 lumiliximab, thalidomide and its analog lenalidomide, the semi-synthetic flavonoid flavopiridol and other agents which are currently undergoing clinical trials with promising results. This article reviews the recent advances and future possibilities in the treatment of CLL."
473	"We evaluated the pro-apoptotic activity of Verbena officinalis essential oil and  of its main component citral, on lymphocytes collected from normal blood donors and patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The number of apoptotic cells was greater in CLL patients than in healthy subjects at all different times of incubation (4, 8 and 24 hours) for samples treated with Verbena officinalis essential oil (A) and citral (B) as well vs controls at different concentrations  (0.1% and 0.01%). The greater pro-apoptotic ability was shown by both essential oil of Verbena officinalis and citral at lower concentrations (after 4 h A 0.1%:  17.8% vs 37.1%; A 0.01%: 15.8% vs 52%; B 0.1%: 18.4% vs 46.4%; B 0.01%: 15.8% vs  54.2%; after 8 h A 0.1%: 23% vs 38%; A 0.01%: 22.2% vs 55%; B 0.1%: 32% vs 42.2%; B 0.01%: 22% vs 54.3%; after 24 h A 0.1%: 5% vs 20.7%; A 0.01%: 25.8% vs 47.2%; B 0.1%: 18.4% vs 46.4%; B 0.01%: 15.8% vs 54.2%). Patients carrying deletion 17p13  (p53 mutation) showed a reduced ability to undergo apoptosis with respect to patients with other genomic aberrations or normal karyotype. The proapoptotic activity of Verbena officinalis essential oil and citral is thought to be due to  a direct procaspase 3 activation. These data further support evidence that indicate natural compounds as a possible lead structure to develop new therapeutic agents."
474	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common adult form of leukemia in the Western world, however, infrequent in the Eastern. It shows a remarkable heterogeneity, with some patients having an almost normal lifespan, others surviving only several years after diagnosis despite intensive therapy. To investigate lipoprotein lipase (LPL) expression level in Chinese patients with CLL and its correlation with other prognostic factors, including immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region (IgVH) mutation status, Binet stages, ZAP-70 protein  and CD38 expression level, semiquantitative RT-PCR was used to detect LPL expression in peripheral blood samples of 58 Chinese patients with CLL. LPL expression level was significantly correlated with IgVH mutational status (r = 0.348, P = 0.010), Binet stages (r = 0.276, P = 0.036), ZAP-70 protein (r = 0.431, P = 0.001) and CD38 (r = 0.546, P < 0.001). Patients with unmutated IgVH genes had higher expression of LPL than patients with IgVH mutations. The higher  expression level of LPL was also associated with higher level of ZAP-70 and CD38, and more aggressive Binet stage. We also analyzed LPL expression in different cytogenetic subgroups. Higher LPL level was found in patients with unfavorable cytogenetic aberrations (deletion in 17p13 or 11q22) in contrast to lower level in good risk cytogenetics (deletion in 13q as the sole abnormality) (r = 0.404, P = 0.002). It was showed that LPL expression correlates with IgVH mutational status and other clinical or laboratory prognostic factors, and might be applied  for the assessment of prognosis in patients with CLL."
475	"B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a malignant disorder characterized by the accumulation of the leukemic cells in the G0-G1 phase of the cell cycle and expressing high levels of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Since we observed that the treatment of autoimmune complications with Cyclosporine A (CsA) determined in some CLL patients an improvement not only of the autoimmune phenomena, but also of the leukemic process, we evaluated the in vitro cytotoxicity of CsA as compared to Dexamethasone (Dex) on leukemic cells. Leukemic cells obtained from 32 B-CLL patients showed a heterogeneous pattern of  spontaneous apoptosis at 24 h interval and this pattern permitted to identify: Group 1 (14/32) with high (>20%) apoptotic rate and Group 2 (18/32) with low cell death. CsA and Dex increased cell death in both groups with a different timing by an apoptotic mechanism that does not involve Bcl-2. Furthermore, in Group 2, CsA-induced apoptosis was significant higher than that observed with Dex both at  4 and 24 h. We suggest that, in B-CLL, CsA has a significant pro-apoptotic activity manifested also in patients with low spontaneous apoptosis. Our observations might be taken into account to consider new therapeutic strategies in B-CLL."
481	"There is resurgent interest in glucocorticoids (GCs) in the treatment of poor prognosis chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Little is known however on how GCs  induce apoptosis in CLL. Methylprednisolone (MP) induces apoptosis in ZAP-70 positive CLL more readily than in ZAP-70 negative CLL, which is in contrast to the effects of radiation and chemotherapy. The increased GC sensitivity of ZAP-70+ CLL was studied in relation to the expression status of ZAP-70 and the related signal transducing tyrosine kinase SYK. Both ZAP-70 and SYK were downregulated by GC treatment. Moreover, SYK was dephosphorylated by the phosphatase PTP1B of which the expression and translation levels were induced by  GCs. Inhibition of PTP1B successfully restored ZAP-70 expression and SYK phosphorylation but did not interfere with GC-induced apoptosis. Therefore, the downregulation of ZAP-70 and P-SYK per se during treatment with GCs is not sufficient to induce apoptosis, and different mechanisms must therefore be responsible for the increased steroid sensitivity of ZAP-70+ CLL."
482	"RATIONALE: Case vignettes have been validated as an efficient tool for assessing  the quality of clinical practices, and have been used in a variety of medical settings. However, their use in the field of hematology has not been tested. OBJECTIVES: We undertook a study to pre-test seven case vignettes, and thereby to assess practice patterns and, when possible, guideline adherence in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) by French hematologists. FINDINGS: Of the 64 hematologists who agreed to participate, 26 (41%) completed the vignettes. We found significant differences in the physicians' patterns of ordering further investigations among young and old patients in the same clinical context. This is not consistent with published guidelines. Moreover, the most striking differences concerned the physicians' interpretations of prognostic factors and the use of radiological testing before treatment. Modalities of treatment were variable across clinical situations, especially with regard to second-line treatments. Clinicians understood the vignettes well, except for those that dealt with stem cell transplantation. CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study showed the feasibility of the use of case vignettes to assess the quality of clinical practice in CLL. The initial results identified deviations from the published guidelines. A large-scale European survey will commence in a few months."
484	"Clinical and biological studies on nodal marginal zone lymphoma (NMZL) are hampered by the lack of specific diagnostic markers and the low reproducibility of this diagnosis. A comparative expression-profiling study has shown a set of markers to be differentially expressed in NMZL compared with follicular lymphoma  (FL), including myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen (MNDA), a nuclear protein expressed by myeloid cells and a subset of B-cells. The aim of this study was to characterize the expression of MNDA in normal and reactive human tissue, and in a large series of non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphomas, with particular emphasis on NMZL and FL. Our results showed that MNDA is expressed in normal tissue by a subset of the marginal zone B cells. They also showed MNDA expression in subgroups of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, mantle-cell lymphoma, and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, but MNDA was especially expressed by lymphomas derived from the marginal zone, such as mucosa-associated lymphoid-tissue lymphoma, splenic marginal-zone lymphoma and NMZL. MNDA expression was rarely observed in FL, a characteristic that is of potential value in distinguishing between NMZL and FL. MNDA expression is thus a useful tool for the recognition of NMZL."
485	"Thalidomide represents a promising immunomodulatory drug that targets both leukemia cells and the tumor microenvironment. We treated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with a combined thalidomide/fludarabine regimen and monitored cellular and molecular changes induced by thalidomide in vivo before fludarabine treatment. Thalidomide was given daily (100 mg p.o. per day) and fludarabine was administered on days 7-11 (25 mg/m(2) i.v. per day) within each 4-week cycle (maximum of 6 cycles). Twenty patients received thalidomide/fludarabine as first-line therapy and 20 patients were previously treated. Unmutated IgVH mutation status was found in 36 cases and 13 had high-risk cytogenetic aberrations (del17p, del11q). The overall response rate was 80 and 25% for untreated and previously treated patients, respectively. Although  thalidomide reduced the number of CLL cells, the number of CD3 lymphocytes showed no significant change, but the number of CD4(+)CD25(hi)FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) was significantly decreased. Gene expression profiling revealed a thalidomide-induced signature containing both targets known to have a function in immunomodulatory drug action as well as novel candidate genes. Combined thalidomide/fludarabine therapy demonstrated efficacy in high-risk patients with  CLL. Furthermore, our study provides novel biological insights into thalidomide effect, which might act by enhancing apoptosis of CLL cells and reducing Tregs, thereby enabling T-cell-dependent antitumor effect."
486	"Dysregulation of the sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling pathway has been shown in several cancer types, but has not been explored in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. We assessed 67 cases of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma for expression of SHH (ligand), GLI1, GLI2 and GLI3 (transcriptional effectors of SHH signaling), and the ATP-binding cassette (ABC)G2 (a downstream target of SHH signaling), using immunohistochemistry. For comparison, we assessed the expression levels of these  proteins in 28 cases of follicular lymphoma, 5 chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, and 5 reactive lymph nodes. In diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, SHH was expressed in 61 of 67 (91%) cases, GLI1 in 62 of 67 (93%), GLI2 in 41 of 56 (73%), and GLI3 in 22 of 56 (39%). Expression of ABCG2 was detected in 52 of 55 (95%) cases and was high in 15 (27%) cases. SHH expression positively correlated with expression levels of ABCG2 (P=0.05). Patients with diffuse large  B-cell lymphoma with high ABCG2 expression showed significantly shorter overall survival (P=0.031) and failure-free survival (P=0.029) compared with patients with tumors with low or no expression of ABCG2. Diffuse large B-cell lymphomas expressed SHH, and GLI1, GLI2, and GLI3 more frequently and more intensely than cases of follicular lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. In conclusion, our data show that SHH signaling proteins and ABCG2 are  aberrantly expressed in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and that ABCG2 expression has prognostic implications. These findings also provide evidence that dysregulation of the SHH pathway may be involved in the pathogenesis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma."
487	"Patients with advanced breast cancer frequently develop bone metastases, and at this stage, the disease is considered incurable. Here, we show that a 6-week course of weekly administration of doxorubicin (2 mg/kg), followed 24 hours later by the bisphosphonate zoledronic acid (100microg/kg), causes substantial inhibition of MDA-MB-436 breast tumor burden in bone of immunocompromised mice, compared with administration of the single agents. Molecular analysis of tumors from animals treated sequentially with doxorubicin followed by zoledronic acid showed reduced numbers of proliferating tumor cells and decreased expression of cyclins E1, B, D1, and D3 as well as cdk2 and cdk4. Tumors from the sequential treatment group also displayed increased levels of apoptosis, increased expression of bcl2-associated X protein, decreased expression of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 2, and activation of caspase 3, 8, and 9. Zoledronic acid caused a small reduction in tumor volume, reduced tumor cell proliferation, and decreased expression of cyclins D1 and D3, compared with tumors from animals treated with saline or doxorubicin. Doxorubicin had no effect on tumor growth, cell cycle, or apoptosis in vivo, but did cause increased accumulation of a bisphosphonate in MDA-MB-436 cells in vitro, suggesting that doxorubicin may affect subsequent uptake of zoledronic acid. In support of this,  accumulation of unprenylated Rap1A, a surrogate marker of zoledronic acid, was only detected in tumors following sequential treatment, and not following treatment with zoledronic acid alone. Our data are the first to show the specific molecular pathways by which sequential treatment with doxorubicin and zoledronic  acid induce tumor cell apoptosis and inhibit proliferation in an in vivo model of breast tumor growth in bone."
490	"Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) manipulates the host immune system in various ways.  Allegedly, HCMV infection is associated with increased percentages of a particular natural killer (NK) cell subset expressing the activating receptor CD94/NKG2C in both healthy individuals and in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Whether the HCMV-mediated induction of this specific NK cell subset is also apparent for other diseases characterized by abnormal immune responses, such as malignant blood diseases, is unknown. By comparing the fractions of CD94/NKG2C(+) NK cells in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients having either positive or negative HCMV serostatus, a proportional increase of this cell subset was obvious in the HCMV-seropositive subjects. Therapeutic intervention in the patients with positive HCMV serostatus  did not seem to reduce the percentage of CD94/NKG2C-expressing NK cells. Thus, HCMV infection seemingly shapes the NK cell system in healthy individuals, HIV patients, and B-CLL patients in a uniform manner, even though these involve different immunological challenges."
492	"BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, noncoding RNAs that regulate the expression of multiple target genes. Deregulation of miRNAs is common in human tumorigenesis. The miRNAs, MIR-15a/16-1, at chromosome band 13q14 are down-regulated in the majority of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We have measured the expression of MIR-15a/16-1,  and 92 computationally-predicted MIR-15a/16-1 target genes in CLL patients and in normal controls. We identified 35 genes that are deregulated in CLL patients, 5 of which appear to be specific targets of the MIR-15a/16-1 cluster. These targets included 2 genes (BAZ2A and RNF41) that were significantly up-regulated (p<0.05)  and 3 genes (RASSF5, MKK3 and LRIG1) that were significantly down-regulated (p<0.05) in CLL patients with down-regulated MIR-15a/16-1 expression. SIGNIFICANCE: The genes identified here as being subject to MIR-15a/16-1 regulation could represent direct or indirect targets of these miRNAs. Many of these are good biological candidates for involvement in tumorigenesis and as such, may be important in the aetiology of CLL."
494	"The prognosis of fludarabine (F)-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is very poor, and underlying mechanisms are only partly understood. To assess the contribution of p53 abnormalities to F-refractory CLL, we studied TP53 mutations  in the CLL2H trial (subcutaneous alemtuzumab; n = 99). We found TP53 mutations in 37% of patients. Twelve of 67 (18%) patients without the 17p deletion showed a TP53 mutation and 50% showed evidence of uniparental disomy. A total of 75% of cases with TP53 mutation (without 17p-) showed clonal evolution/expansion. TP53 mutations had no impact on overall survival (P = .48). CLL with the 17p deletion  or TP53 mutation showed very low miR-34a expression. To investigate the mechanisms underlying refractory CLL beyond p53, we studied cases without 17p-/TP53 mutation in detail. In several paired samples before and after F-refractory disease, no change in p21/p53 induction was observed after DNA damage. Although TP53 mutations and 17p deletions are found in a high proportion  of F-refractory CLL, more than half of the cases cannot be explained by p53 defects (deletion or mutation), and alternative mechanisms need to be investigated. Alemtuzumab is effective irrespective of genetic high-risk subgroups with TP53 mutations. These clinical trials are registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00274976."
495	"The development of reduced intensity conditioning regimens has increased the number of patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia that are referred  for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT). However, given the  toxicity of allo-HCT, it should only be offered to eligible patients whose life expectancy is significantly reduced by the disease. Accordingly, the European Group of Blood and Marrow Transplantation has recently identified those patients  in whom allo-HCT could be a reasonable therapeutic approach. In this review, we have evaluated the outcome of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients undergoing allo-HCT, either after conventional or reduced intensity conditioning regimens, in the context of current nontransplantation strategies. We have also analyzed the most important predisposing factors that might interfere with the procedure as well as posttransplantation complications that are particularly common in these patients. Finally, we have addressed the most relevant factors when deciding what patients should be considered for allo-HCT and the timing of the procedure."
496	"Here we describe the generation of an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) consisting of a humanized anti-CD79b antibody that is conjugated to monomethylauristatin E (MMAE) through engineered cysteines (THIOMABs) by a protease cleavable linker. By using flow cytometry, we detected the surface expression of CD79b in almost all non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients, suggesting  that anti-CD79b-vcMMAE could be widely used in these malignancies. By using NHL cell lines to simulate a patient population we discovered that a minimal cell-surface expression level of CD79b was required for in vitro activity. Within the subpopulation of cell lines above this minimal threshold, we found that sensitivity to free MMAE, mutation of cancer genes, and cell doubling time were poorly correlated with in vitro activity; however, the expression level of BCL-XL was correlated with reduced sensitivity to anti-CD79b-vcMMAE. This observation was supported by in vivo data showing that a Bcl-2 family inhibitor, ABT-263, strikingly enhanced the activity of anti-CD79b-vcMMAE. Furthermore, anti-CD79b-vcMMAE was significantly more effective than a standard-of-care regimen, R-CHOP (ie, rituximab with a single intravenous injection of 30 mg/kg cyclophosphamide, 2.475 mg/kg doxorubicin, 0.375 mg/kg vincristine, and oral dosing of 0.15 mg/kg prednisone once a day for 5 days), in 3 xenograft models of  NHL. Together, these data suggest that anti-CD79b-vcMMAE could be broadly efficacious for the treatment of NHL."
497	"PURPOSE: The addition of monoclonal antibodies to chemotherapy has significantly  improved treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Based on excellent results with the chemotherapy-only regimen fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and mitoxantrone (FCM), we built a new chemoimmunotherapy combination--rituximab plus FCM (R-FCM). We report a phase II clinical trial consisting of an initial treatment with R-FCM followed by rituximab maintenance. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-two untreated CLL patients age 70 years or younger  received rituximab 500 mg/m(2) on day 1 (375 mg/m(2) the first cycle), fludarabine 25 mg/m(2) IV on days 1 to 3, cyclophosphamide 200 mg/m(2) on days 1  to 3, and mitoxantrone 6 mg/m(2) IV on day 1, given at 4-week intervals with up to six cycles supported with colony-stimulating factor. Patients achieving response received maintenance with rituximab 375 mg/m(2) every 3 months for 2 years. RESULTS: The overall response, minimal residual disease (MRD) -negative complete  response (CR), MRD-positive CR, and partial response rates were 93%, 46%, 36%, and 11%, respectively. Severe neutropenia developed in 13% of patients. Major and minor infections were reported in 8% and 5% of cycles, respectively. Advanced clinical stage, del(17p), or increased serum beta2-microglobulin levels correlated with a lower CR rate. CONCLUSION: R-FCM is highly effective in previously untreated CLL, with an 82% CR rate and a high proportion of MRD-negative CRs (46%). Treatment toxicity is acceptable. Parameters correlating with a lower response rate were advanced clinical stage, high serum beta2-microglobulin levels, and del(17p). Based on these results, R-FCM warrants further investigation in randomized clinical trials."
499	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by accumulation of mature monoclonal CD5+ B cells. The disease results mainly from a failure of cells to undergo apoptosis, a process largely influenced by the existence of constitutively activated components of B-cell receptor signaling and the deregulated expression of anti-apoptotic molecules. Recent evidence pointing to a critical role of spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) in ligand-independent BCR signaling prompted us to examine its role in primary B-CLL cell survival. We demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of constitutive Syk activity and silencing by siRNA led to a dramatic decrease of cell viability in CLL samples (n=44), regardless of clinical and biological status and induced typical apoptotic cell death with mitochondrial failure followed by caspase 3-dependent cell death. We also provide functional and biochemical evidence that Syk regulated B-CLL cell survival through a novel pathway involving PKCdelta and a proteasome-dependent regulation of the anti-apoptotic protein Mcl-1. Together, our observations are consistent with a model wherein PKCdelta downstream of Syk stabilizes Mcl-1 through inhibitory phosphorylation of GSK3 by Akt. We conclude that Syk constitutes a key regulator of B-CLL cell survival, emphasizing the clinical utility of Syk inhibition in hematopoietic malignancies."
500	"A comprehensive and systematic assessment of the current status of candidate-gene association studies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was conducted. Data from 989 candidate-gene association studies (1992-2009) involving 905 distinct genetic variants were analyzed and cataloged in CUMAGAS-CLL, a Web-based information system which allows the retrieval and synthesis of data from candidate-gene association studies on CLL (http://biomath.med.uth.gr). Nine genetic variants (BAX (rs4645878), GSTM1 (null/present), GSTT1 (null/present), IL10 (rs1800896), LTA (rs909253), MTHFR (rs1801131), MTHFR (rs1801133), P2RX7 (rs3751143), and TNF (rs1800629)) were investigated in 4 or more studies, and their results were meta-analyzed. In individual studies, 147 variants showed a significant association with CLL risk under any genetic model. For 53 variants, the association was significant at P < 0.01 with an increased risk greater than 40%. Only 0.3% of studies had statistical power greater than 80%. In meta-analyses, none of the variants showed significant results, and heterogeneity ranged from none to high. Large and rigorous genetic studies (candidate-gene association studies and genome-wide association studies) designed to investigate  epistatic and gene-environment interactions may produce more conclusive evidence  about the genetic etiology of CLL. CUMAGAS-CLL would be a useful tool for current genomic epidemiology research in the field of CLL."
501	"8-Chloroadenosine (8-Cl-Ado) is a ribonucleoside analogue that is currently in clinical trial for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Based on the decline in cellular ATP pool following 8-Cl-Ado treatment, we hypothesized that 8-Cl-ADP and 8-Cl-ATP may interfere with ATP synthase, a key enzyme in ATP production. Mitochondrial ATP synthase is composed of two major parts; F(O) intermembrane base and F1 domain, containing alpha and beta subunits. Crystal structures of both alpha and  beta subunits that bind to the substrate, ADP, are known in tight binding (alpha(dp)beta(dp)) and loose binding (alpha(tp)beta(tp)) states. Molecular docking demonstrated that 8-Cl-ADP/8-Cl-ATP occupied similar binding modes as ADP/ATP in the tight and loose binding sites of ATP synthase, respectively, suggesting that the chlorinated nucleotide metabolites may be functional substrates and inhibitors of the enzyme. The computational predictions were consistent with our whole cell biochemical results. Oligomycin, an established pharmacological inhibitor of ATP synthase, decreased both ATP and 8-Cl-ATP formation from exogenous substrates, however, did not affect pyrimidine nucleoside analogue triphosphate accumulation. Synthesis of ATP from ADP was inhibited in cells loaded with 8-Cl-ATP. These biochemical studies are in consent with the computational modeling; in the alpha(tp)beta(tp) state 8-Cl-ATP occupies similar binding as ANP, a non-hydrolyzable ATP mimic that is a known inhibitor. Similarly, in the substrate binding site (alpha(dp)beta(dp)) 8-Cl-ATP occupies a  similar position as ATP mimic ADP-BeF(3)(-). Collectively, our current work suggests that 8-Cl-ADP may serve as a substrate and the 8-Cl-ATP may be an inhibitor of ATP synthase."
502	"INTRODUCTION: Although membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis has been reported to occur in association with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, information concerning the long term effects of treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma on the associated membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is limited. CASE PRESENTATION: The current report describes a patient who presented with the  abrupt onset of hypertension, mixed nephritic/nephrotic syndrome and acute renal  failure. Kidney biopsy was consistent with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, type 1. Bone marrow biopsy performed in the evaluation of periaortic lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and thrombocytopenia confirmed the diagnosis of low grade B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The patient's renal function improved and proteinuria resolved after initial treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with chemotherapy. During eleven years of follow up, membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis has remained in remission, as confirmed  by repeatedly negative urinalyses, normal blood pressure and absence of clinical  signs and symptoms suggestive of nephritic/nephrotic syndrome. CONCLUSION: Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis has been known to be associated with both chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, particularly with B cell lymphocytic type non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. There is limited information available concerning the effects of treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma on the progression of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma associated membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. In the few reported cases we found, long term follow up after initial resolution of the membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis was lacking. This report presented a rare case of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma associated membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, that  continued to be in remission during eleven years of follow up after initial chemotherapy treatment of lymphoma."
503	"Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCV) is a recently discovered human virus closely related to African green monkey lymphotropic polyomavirus. MCV DNA is integrated  in approximately 80% of Merkel cell carcinomas (MCC), a neuroendocrine skin cancer linked to lymphoid malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). To assess MCV infection and its association with human diseases, we developed a monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes endogenous and transfected MCV large T (LT) antigen. We show expression of MCV LT protein localized to nuclei of tumor cells from MCC having PCR quantified MCV genome at an average of 5.2 (range 0.8-14.3) T antigen DNA copies per cell. Expression of this putative viral oncoprotein in tumor cells provides the mechanistic underpinning supporting the notion that MCV causes a subset of MCC. In contrast,  although 2.2% of 325 hematolymphoid malignancies surveyed also showed evidence for MCV infection by DNA PCR, none were positive at high viral copy numbers, and  none of 173 lymphoid malignancies examined on tissue microarrays expressed MCV LT protein in tumor cells. As with some of the other human polyomaviruses, lymphocytes may serve as a tissue reservoir for MCV infection, but hematolymphoid malignancies associated with MCC are unlikely to be caused by MCV."
504	"We report a case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia with a characteristic cytogenetics finding detected by fluorescent in situ hybridization. This case has deletion in p53 gene in 50% of interphase nuclei studied in the peripheral blood  and polyploidy in 30% of cells. To our knowledge polyploidy is not commonly reported with chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients."
505	"PURPOSE: This randomized, open-label, parallel-group, multicenter study was designed to compare the efficacy and safety of bendamustine and chlorambucil in previously untreated patients with advanced (Binet stage B or C) chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients (<or= 75 years of age) were randomly assigned to receive bendamustine 100 mg/m(2)/d intravenously on days 1 to 2, or chlorambucil  0.8 mg/kg (Broca's normal weight) orally on days 1 and 15; treatment cycles were  repeated every 4 weeks for a maximum of six cycles. The response to treatment was assessed according to National Cancer Institute Working Group criteria, and the final determination of response was made by a blinded independent review committee. RESULTS: A total of 319 patients were randomly assigned (162 bendamustine, 157 chlorambucil). Complete or partial responses were achieved in 110 (68%) of 162 bendamustine-treated and 48 (31%) of 157 chlorambucil-treated patients (P < .0001). More patients showed complete responses with bendamustine than with chlorambucil (31% v 2%). Median progression-free survival was 21.6 months with bendamustine and 8.3 months with chlorambucil (P < .0001). Bendamustine was also  associated with an improvement in duration of remission, compared with chlorambucil (median, 21.8 v 8.0 months). Hematologic National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria grade 3 to 4 adverse events were more common with bendamustine than with chlorambucil (occurring in 40% v 19% of patients). Severe  infections (grade 3 to 4) occurred in 8% of bendamustine-treated patients and 3%  of chlorambucil-treated patients. CONCLUSION: Bendamustine offers significantly greater efficacy than chlorambucil, and a manageable toxicity profile, when used as first-line therapy in patients with advanced CLL."
506	"Whether advances in treatment are prolonging survival of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is unclear. We analyzed presentation patterns and survival over time in 929 patients followed from 1980 to 2008 at the Hospital Clinic of Barcelona. The 5- and 10-year relative survival (adjusted for the expected survival in the general population) was estimated in patients seen in 2  periods of time: 1980-1994 (n = 451) and 1995-2004 (n = 365). We found that CLL shortens life expectancy in all age groups independently of clinical features at  diagnosis. Nevertheless, survival is improving, particularly in some groups of patients. Thus, relative survival was significantly higher in the 1995-2004 cohort than in the 1980-1994 group both at 5 years (incidence rate ratio [IRR] =  0.46; P = .004) and 10 years (IRR = 0.65; P = .007) from diagnosis. The improved  survival was largely due to a decrease in CLL-attributable mortality in patients  younger than 70 years in Binet stage B or C at diagnosis (IRR = 0.40; P = .001 at 5 years; IRR = 0.33; P < .001 at 10 years). These results suggest that newer treatments are changing the prognosis of CLL, particularly in younger patients with advanced disease, whereas no improvement is yet observed in older subjects or those with lower-risk disease."
509	"Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), CpG-containing phosphothioate oligonucleotides (CpG) and various cytokines impact chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells. For example, they influence cell cycle entry, expression of co-receptors, and CD20. Rituximab (RTX), for which CD20 molecule is the target, proved to be less efficient in CLL than in lymphoma. This is accounted for by a lower CD20 level in the former than in the latter B lymphocytes. CD20 transcription is mediated by four transcription factors, of which only purine-rich box-1 (PU.1) is reduced in  CLL. We thus examined the effects of LPS, CpG, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-alpha, interleukin (IL)-3, IL-4, IL-21, granulocyte macrophage-colony  stimulating factor (CSF), and granulocyte-CSF on the transcription of PU.1, and the subsequent expression of CD20. It appeared that CpG was unique in that it raised the membrane expression of CD20 on malignant B cells, owing to a PU.1 independent increase in its gene transcription. Moreover, RTX-induced complement-mediated lysis was also ameliorated. Thus, CpG accelerates the transcription of CD20 independently of PU.1, and thereby improves the efficacy of RTX in CLL."
511	"Patients with purine analogue-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have  short survival and limited treatment options. Defining the best salvage strategies for this population is challenging, because limited data are available from clinical trials, and because studies have enrolled mixed populations (patients with recurrent and refractory disease or patients with refractory disease and Richter transformation). Moreover, patients with refractory CLL have  a high incidence of unfavorable molecular and clinical features, such as high-risk genomic profiles, unmutated immunoglobulin heavy-chain genes, expression of zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70, and bulky lymphadenopathies. These patients are also severely immunosuppressed because of the underlying disease and the treatments received, and experience a high rate of infectious complications that pose an additional difficulty in selecting treatment. Despite these challenges, in parallel with better characterizations of the biologic features of refractory CLL, the number of available treatment modalities for this population has increased. Several chemoimmunotherapy combinations have been developed, and novel agents with a different mechanism of  action are being investigated in clinical trials. Furthermore, allogeneic stem cell transplantation with nonmyeloablative conditioning regimens is a therapeutic strategy that is increasingly offered to patients with refractory CLL."
512	"PURPOSE: SNS-032 (formerly BMS-387032) is a potent, selective inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) 2, 7 and 9, currently in phase 1 clinical trial for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM). We used the MM  cell line RPMI-8226 to evaluate the relationship between duration of SNS-032 exposure, target modulation of CDKs 2, 7 and 9, and induction of apoptosis. We also assessed target modulation in patient peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from phase 1 solid tumor patients treated with SNS-032. METHODS: Proliferation and colony forming assays were used to evaluate cytotoxicity, Western blot analyses to evaluate target modulation, FACS analysis  to assess cell cycle distribution, RT-PCR to evaluate transcriptional inhibition. RESULTS: SNS-032 blocks the cell cycle via inhibition of CDKs 2 and 7, and transcription via inhibition of CDKs 7 and 9. Treatment of RPMI-8226 MM cells at  300 nM (IC(90)) for 6 h was sufficient for commitment to apoptosis. This correlated with inhibition of CDKs 2, 7 and 9, as reflected in substrate signaling molecules. SNS-032 activity was unaffected by human serum. Target modulation was observed in PBMC from treated patients. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate SNS-032 target modulation of CDKs 2, 7 and 9, and establish 6 h exposure as sufficient to commit RPMI-8226 MM cells to apoptosis. Combined with the demonstration of target modulation in PBMC from phase 1 solid tumor patients treated with SNS-032, these data support the ongoing clinical study of SNS-032 in MM and CLL."
513	"Most patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia are diagnosed at an early stage,  when traditional staging systems fail to distinguish those with an aggressive disease course from those with an excellent prognosis. This failure underscores the need for better prognostic markers. Although many markers have been explored, this review focuses on the newer and most clinically relevant markers: cytogenetic aberrations, zeta-associated protein 70, immunoglobulin mutational status, and CD38 expression. Although these markers have been shown to predict outcomes for groups of patients, individual patients may have a variable course;  therefore, the outcome for any one patient remains hard to predict. To date, no study has shown a benefit from early cytotoxic therapy for any subgroup of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
514	"We analyzed the correlation between well-established biological parameters of prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) [i.e. mutational status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgV(H)), ZAP-70- and CD38-expression] and serum levels of CD26 (dipeptidyl peptidase IV, DPP IV) by evaluating the impact of these variables on the time to first treatment (TFT) in a series of 69 previously untreated Binet stage A B-cell CLL patients. By using a commercial ELISA we found that with exception of a borderline significance for ZAP-70 (P = 0.07) and CD38 (P = 0.08), circulating levels of CD26 did not correlate with either Rai substages (P = 0.520) or other biomarker [beta2-microglobulin (P = 0.933), LDH (P = 0.101), mutational status of IgV(H) (P = 0.320)]. Maximally selected log-rank statistic plots identified a CD26 serum concentration of 371 ng/mL as the best cut-off. This threshold allowed the identification of two subsets of patients with CD26 serum levels higher and lower that 371 ng/mL respectively, whose clinical outcome was different with respect to TFT (i.e. 46% and 71% at 5 yr respectively; P = 0.005). Along with higher serum levels of CD26, the univariate Cox proportional hazard model identified absence of mutation in IgV(H) (P < 0.0001) as predictor of shorter TFT. As in multivariate analysis all these parameters maintained their discriminating power (mutational status of IgV(H,)P < 0.0001; soluble CD26, P = 0.02) their combined effect on clinical outcome was assessed. When three groups were considered: (1) Low-risk group (n = 31), patients with concordant IgVH(mut)  and low level of soluble CD26; (2) intermediate risk group (n = 26), patients with discordant pattern; (3) high-risk group (n = 12), patients with concordant IgVH(unmut) and high level of soluble CD26, differences in the TFT were statistically significant, with a TFT at 5 yr of respectively 88%, 51% and 43% (P < 0.0001). Our results indicate that in early B-cell CLL biological profile including among other parameters soluble CD26 may provide a useful insight into the complex interrelationship of prognostic variables. Furthermore, CD26 along with mutational status of IgV(H) can be adequately used to predict clinical behavior of patients with low risk disease."
515	"The TNF member LIGHT also known as TL4 or TNFSF14) can play a major role in cancer control via its two receptors; it induces tumor cell death through lymphotoxin-beta receptor (LT-betaR) and ligation to the herpes virus entry mediator (HVEM) amplifies the immune response. By studying the effect of LIGHT in the transcriptional profile of a lymphoid malignancy, we found that HVEM, but not LT-betaR, stimulation induces a significant increase in the expression of chemokine genes such as IL-8, and an unexpected upregulation of apoptotic genes.  This had functional consequences, since LIGHT, or HVEM mAb, thus far known to costimulate T- and B-cell activation, induced chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell death. Many of the mediators involved were identified here, with an apoptotic pathway as demonstrated by caspases activation, decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, upregulation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax, but also a role of TRAIL. Moreover, HVEM induced endogenous TNF-alpha production and TNF-alpha enhanced HVEM-mediated cell death. HVEM function was mainly dependent on LIGHT, since other ligands like HSV-glycoprotein D and B and T lymphocyte attenuator were essentially ineffective. In conclusion, we describe a novel, as yet unknown killing effect of LIGHT through HVEM on a lymphoid malignancy, and combined with induction of chemokine release this may represent an additional tool to boost cancer immunotherapy."
517	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is the most common adult leukemia and is currently incurable with conventional chemotherapeutic agents. Over the last few years, significant discoveries have been made regarding the biology that underpins this  disease. These new insights have allowed us to develop more rational prognostic tools and identify promising novel therapeutic targets. In this review, we highlight the importance of both constitutive and inducible DNA binding of the transcription factor NF-kappaB in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We describe the current knowledge regarding the activity and function of specific NF-kappaB subunits in this disease, and discuss the complex mechanisms that regulate NF-kappaB activation in vivo. In addition, we provide compelling evidence for the utility of the NF-kappaB subunit, Rel A, as a prognostic marker and as a therapeutic target in this disease, and we also describe how this protein may contribute to the drug resistance commonly encountered with this condition."
518	"Genetic polymorphisms in DNA repair genes can affect the risk of developing different forms of cancer. Therefore, we have studied the putative association of seven single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in five DNA repair genes with the incidence of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We included 461 CLL patients and the same number of age- and sex-matched controls. As chromosomal aberrations are  important prognostic markers in CLL, we additionally correlated the SNPs with the occurrence of favorable and unfavorable cytogenetic aberrations in CLL patients.  Patients with del(13q) as a sole aberration were allocated to the favorable cytogenetic risk group, and patients with del(17p) and/or del(11q) to the unfavorable cytogenetic risk group. All investigated SNPs were equally distributed between patients with the favorable cytogenetic aberration and controls. However, differences were observed in the distribution of rs13181 in ERCC2 between all CLL patients and controls. Moreover, the clearest differences were found for rs13181 in ERCC2 and rs25487 in XRCC1 between CLL patients with unfavorable cytogenetic aberrations and controls. These data suggest that inborn  genetic polymorphisms may predict the outcome of CLL."
519	"BACKGROUND: In chronic lymphocytic leukemia lenalidomide causes striking immune activation, possibly leading to clearance of tumor cells. We conducted this study to investigate the mechanism of action of lenalidomide and the basis for its unique toxicities in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. DESIGN AND METHODS: Patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia were treated with lenalidomide 20 mg (n=10) or 10 mg (n=8) daily for 3 weeks on a 6-week cycle. Correlative studies assessed expression of co-stimulatory molecules on tumor cells, T-cell activation, cytokine levels, and changes in lymphocyte subsets. RESULTS: Lenalidomide upregulated the co-stimulatory molecule CD80 on chronic lymphocytic leukemia and mantle cell lymphoma cells but not on normal peripheral  blood B cells in vitro. T-cell activation was apparent in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, weak in mantle cell lymphoma, but absent in normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells and correlated with the upregulation of CD80 on B cells. Strong CD80 upregulation and T-cell activation predicted more severe side effects, manifesting in 83% of patients as a cytokine release syndrome within 8-72 h after the first dose of lenalidomide. Serum levels of various cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, increased during treatment. CD80 upregulation on tumor cells correlated with rapid clearance of leukemic cells from the peripheral blood. In contrast, neither the severity of the cytokine release syndrome nor the degree of T-cell activation in vitro correlated with clinical response. CONCLUSIONS: Upregulation of CD80 on tumor cells and T-cell activation correlate  with unique toxicities of lenalidomide in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. However,  T-cell activation appears to be dispensable for the drug's anti-tumor effects. This provides a rationale for combinations of lenalidomide with fludarabine or alemtuzumab."
520	"BACKGROUND: Clinical management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients has changed considerably over the last years, reflected in an increased use of prognostic markers, new therapeutic agents and procedures, and supportive care measures. However, to date, clinical trials have not shown a survival benefit. DESIGN AND METHODS: Using population-based data from Sweden, we assessed variations in survival among all chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients (n=11,179) reported from 1973-2003. Relative survival ratios were computed as measures of patient survival. RESULTS: Overall we found significantly improved (p<0.0001) 5-, 10-, and 20-year  relative survival ratio for the entire cohort during the study period. Improved 5- and 10-year relative survival ratio was found for all age-groups (p<0.0001) and both sexes. Compared to females, however, males had a significantly inferior  survival in all age groups and calendar periods (p<0.0001). Younger chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients had a superior survival compared to older chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients, in all calendar periods (p<0.0001). Five-year relative survival ratio has not improved in the youngest chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients since the 1980s; however, older patients have had a continuous  improvement in 5 year-relative survival ratio. CONCLUSIONS: The observed improvements are likely due to improved therapeutic developments and supportive care. Our findings suggest that elderly chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients might benefit more from the recently introduced drugs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Future clinical trials are needed to better define underlying mechanisms of observed heterogeneity in chronic lymphocytic leukemia survival by age and sex, and evaluate the role of newer chronic lymphocytic leukemia therapy in the elderly."
522	"The calcitonin receptor (CTR) is a seven-transmembrane-domain G-protein-coupled receptor that regulates calcium metabolism and bone resorption by osteoclasts. Here we demonstrate that high levels are expressed by normal human T and B lymphocytes from tonsils and peripheral blood in relation to their activation status, as CTR(+) T cells are prone to produce IFN-gamma after TCR stimulation. The receptor is also highly expressed on B cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients, thus suggesting a correlation between its expression, their proliferative extent as well as their memory, antigen-experienced phenotype. Moreover, we found that binding of the receptor with salmon calcitonin induces an increase of intracellular calcium(2+) in peripheral lymphocytes. This effect is involved in several lymphocyte immune functions, as cytosolic calcium(2+) levels  regulate both cell proliferation and cytokine production. In our hands, the increase of calcium(2+) levels by CTR binding with sCT induced a dose-dependent cell proliferation. We therefore suppose that expression of this functional receptor may contribute to the modulation of cytoplasmic calcium(2+) levels needed to regulate T and B cell activation and perhaps other immune functions."
523	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) shows a remarkable heterogeneity, with some patients having an almost normal lifespan, others surviving only several months after diagnosis despite intensive therapy. The aim of this study was to investigate the serum thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) concentration in Chinese patients  with CLL and its correlation with well-established other prognostic factors. Enhanced chemiluminescent dot blot assay was performed to measure serum TK1 concentration in 80 CLL patients. The concentration of TK1 was significantly increased in patients with Binet C (P = 0.002), higher levels of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (P = 0.012) and beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG) (P = 0.025), unmutated IGHV status (P < 0.001), or higher expression levels of ZAP-70 (P = 0.014) and CD38 (P = 0.018) groups compared to the patients with Binet A, lower levels of serum LDH and beta2-MG, mutated IGHV status, or lower expression levels of ZAP-70 and CD38 groups, respectively. Strong correlation of TK1 level with IGHV mutations (r = 0.412, P < 0.001) or ZAP-70 (r = 0.263, P = 0.024) was observed. According to receiver operating characteristic curve analysis for serum TK1 concentration and IGHV mutational status, area under the curve was 0.757 (P = 0.001) and the optimal cut-off value of serum TK1 concentration level was 1.75 pM, with a 87.8% specificity, a 63.6% sensitivity. It was showed that serum TK1 concentration could be a predictive marker of IGHV mutational status, and might be applied for the assessment of prognosis in patients with CLL."
525	"T cells can be engineered to express the genes of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that recognize tumor-associated antigens. We constructed and compared 2 CARs that contained a single chain variable region moiety that recognized CD19. One CAR contained the signaling moiety of the 4-1BB molecule and the other did not. We selected the CAR that did not contain the 4-1BB moiety for further preclinical development. We demonstrated that gammaretroviruses encoding this receptor could transduce human T cells. Anti-CD19-CAR-transduced CD8+ and CD4+ T  cells produced interferon-gamma and interleukin-2 specifically in response to CD19+ target cells. The transduced T cells specifically killed primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. We transduced T cells from CLL patients that had been previously treated with chemotherapy. We induced these T cells to proliferate sufficiently to provide enough cells for clinical adoptive T cell transfer with a protocol consisting of an initial stimulation with an anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (OKT3) before transduction followed by a second OKT3 stimulation 7 days after transduction. This protocol was successfully adapted for use in CLL patients with high peripheral blood leukemia cell counts by depleting  CD19+ cells before the initial OKT3 stimulation. In preparation for a clinical trial that will enroll patients with advanced B cell malignancies, we generated a producer cell clone that produces retroviruses encoding the anti-CD19 CAR, and we produced sufficient retroviral supernatant for the proposed clinical trial under  good manufacturing practice conditions."
529	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of adult leukemia in the Western countries, however, it is infrequent in the Eastern countries. The direct antiglobulin test (DAT) may be positive at some time during the disease course of CLL. The aim of this study was to explore the prognostic impact of positive DAT at diagnosis in Chinese patients with CLL. In 123 Chinese patients with CLL, 34 (27.6%) patients presented with a positive DAT at diagnosis. However only 12 patients (9.8%) with a positive DAT developed autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AHA). According to the correlation analysis, advanced Binet stage (p < 0.001), high level of serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (p = 0.003) and beta(2)-microglobulin (beta(2)-M) (p = 0.011), unmutated immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene status (p < 0.001), positive ZAP-70 (p = 0.012), and trisomy  12 cytogenetic aberration (p = 0.004) emerged as factors significantly related to the occurrence of DAT-positive. Patients with positive DAT had significantly shorter survival times than patients with negative DAT (p = 0.009). Five-year OS  percentages of DAT-positivity and DAT-negative patients were 72.8% and 97.5%, respectively. It was showed that DAT status might be applied for the assessment of prognosis in patients with CLL."
531	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) share many features and their differential diagnosis may be challenging, especially when a leukemic picture alone is present. Monoclonal antibody panels are often useful, with CD23 being the most reliable. However, MCL diagnosis should be confirmed by  immunohistochemical cyclin D1 detection, sometimes with equivocal or even negative results. Other cytofluorimetric, cytogenetics or molecular techniques are reliable but not widely available. B-CLL leukemic cells express CD200, a membrane glycoprotein belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily. We investigated its expression on fresh neoplastic cells of 93 patients with a CD5+  lymphoproliferative disease (79 selected B-CLL and 14 MCL in leukemic phase). Although these data cannot be generalized, all B-CLL samples we examined were positive, with CD200 present on the vast majority of the cells while, in MCL patients, CD200 was expressed by a small minority of CD5+ cells in three subjects and totally absent in the remaining 11. We then examined CD200 expression on paraffin-embedded lymphoid tissues and bone marrow (BM) trephine biopsies from 23 B-CLL and 44 MCL patients. Again, all B-CLL cells were CD200+ both in lymph nodes and in BM while all MCL cells were negative. Adding CD200 in routine panels could be of diagnostic utility in excluding MCL diagnosis."
532	"An emerging treatment option for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is to make cytotoxic immune cells express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that recognizes  specific surface molecules on CLL cells. Here an mRNA coding for an anti-CD19 CAR was transfected into the NK-92 cell line by electroporation. In contrast to cDNA, mRNA resulted in high transfection efficiency (47.2 +/- 8% versus <5% for cDNA) with minimal effect on cell viability. NK-92 cells expressing anti-CD19 CAR killed previously resistant CD19+ B-ALL cell lines, as well as primary CLL cells  and therefore may present a safe, cell-based, targeted treatment for patients with CLL."
533	"We used BAC array-based CGH to detect genomic imbalances in 187 CLL cases. Submicroscopic deletions of chromosome 22q11 were observed in 28 cases (15%), and the frequency of these deletions was second only to loss of the 13q14 region, the most common genomic aberration in CLL. Oligonucleotide-based array CGH analysis showed that the 22q11 deletions ranged in size from 0.34 Mb up to approximately 1 Mb. The minimally deleted region included the ZNF280A, ZNF280B, GGTLC2, and PRAME genes. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed that ZNF280A, ZNF280B, and PRAME mRNA  expression was significantly lower in the 22q11 deletion cases compared to non-deleted cases."
534	"Alterations in the human 13q14 genomic region containing microRNAs mir-15a and mir-16-1 are present in most human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We have previously found the development of CLL in the New Zealand Black murine model to  be associated with a point mutation in the primary mir-15a/16-1 region, which correlated with a decrease in mature miR-16 and miR-15a levels. In this study, addition of exogenous miR-15a and miR-16 led to an accumulation of cells in G(1)  in non-New Zealand Black B cell and New Zealand Black-derived malignant B-1 cell  lines. However, the New Zealand Black line had significantly greater G(1) accumulation, suggesting a restoration of cell cycle control upon exogenous miR-15a/16 addition. Our experiments showed a reduction in protein levels of cyclin D1, a miR-15a/16 target and cell cycle regulator of G(1)/S transition, in  the New Zealand Black cell line following miR-15a/16 addition. These microRNAs were shown to directly target the cyclin D1 3' untranslated region using a green  fluorescent protein lentiviral expression system. miR-16 was also shown to augment apoptosis induction by nutlin, a mouse double minute 2 (MDM2) antagonist, and genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, when added to a B-1 cell line derived from multiple in vivo passages of malignant B-1 cells from New Zealand Black mice with CLL. miR-16 synergized with nutlin and genistein to induce apoptosis. Our data support a role for the mir-15a/16-1 cluster in cell cycle regulation and suggest that these mature microRNAs in both the New Zealand Black model and human CLL may be targets for therapeutic efficacy in this disease."
536	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most frequent leukemia in the Western world, is characterized by extremely variable clinical courses with survivals ranging from 1 to more than 15 years. The pathogenetic factors playing  a key role in defining the biological features of CLL cells, hence eventually influencing the clinical aggressiveness of the disease, are here divided into "intrinsic factors", mainly genomic alterations of CLL cells, and "extrinsic factors", responsible for direct microenvironmental interactions of CLL cells; the latter group includes interactions of CLL cells occurring via the surface B cell receptor (BCR) and dependent to specific molecular features of the BCR itself and/or to the presence of the BCR-associated molecule ZAP-70, or via other non-BCR-dependent interactions, e.g. specific receptor/ligand interactions, such  as CD38/CD31 or CD49d/VCAM-1. A putative final model, discussing the pathogenesis and the clinicobiological features of CLL in relationship of these factors, is also provided."
537	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable disease derived from the monoclonal expansion of CD5(+) B lymphocytes. High expression levels of ZAP-70 or CD38 and deletions of 17p13 (TP53) and 11q22-q23 (ATM) are associated with poorer overall survival and shorter time to disease progression. DNA damage and p53 play a pivotal role in apoptosis induction in response to conventional chemotherapy, because deletions of ATM or p53 identify CLL patients with resistance to treatment. Forodesine is a transition-state inhibitor of the purine nucleoside phosphorylase with antileukemic activity. We show that forodesine is highly cytotoxic as single agent or in combination with bendamustine and rituximab in primary leukemic cells from CLL patients regardless of CD38/ZAP-70 expression and p53 or ATM deletion. Forodesine activates the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway by  decreasing the levels of antiapoptotic MCL-1 protein and induction of proapoptotic BIM protein. Forodesine induces transcriptional up-regulation of p73, a p53-related protein able to overcome the resistance to apoptosis of CLL cells lacking functional p53. Remarkably, no differences in these apoptotic markers were observed based on p53 or ATM status. In conclusion, forodesine induces apoptosis of CLL cells bypassing the DNA-damage/ATM/p53 pathway and might represent a novel chemotherapeutic approach that deserves clinical investigation."
538	"PURPOSE: The diagnosis of monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) is used to characterize patients with a circulating population of clonal B cells, a total B-cell count of less than 5 x 10(9)/L, and no other features of a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder including lymphadenopathy/organomegaly. The natural  history of clinically identified MBL is unclear. The goal of this study was to explore the outcome of patients with MBL relative to that of individuals with Rai stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: We used hematopathology records to identify a cohort of 631 patients with newly diagnosed MBL or Rai stage 0 CLL. Within this cohort, 302 patients had MBL (B-cell counts of 0.02 to 4.99 x 10(9)/L); 94 patients had Rai stage 0 CLL with an absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) < or = 10 x 10(9)/L; and 219  patients had Rai stage 0 CLL with an ALC more than 10 x 10(9)/L. Data on clinical outcome were abstracted from medical records. RESULTS: The percentage of MBL patients free of treatment at 1, 2, and 5 years was 99%, 98%, and 93%, respectively. B-cell count as a continuous variable (hazard ratio [HR] = 2.9, P = .04) and CD38 status (HR = 10.8, P = .006) predicted time to treatment (TTT) among MBL patients. The likelihood of treatment for MBL patients was lower (HR = 0.32, P = .04) than that of both Rai stage 0 CLL patients with an ALC less than 10 x 10(9)/L (n = 94) and Rai stage 0 CLL patients with an ALC more than 10 x 10(9)/L (n = 219; P = .0003). CONCLUSION: Individuals with MBL identified in clinical practice have a low risk  for progression at 5 years. Because B-cell count seems to relate to TTT as a continuous variable, additional studies are needed to determine what B-cell count should be used to distinguish between MBL and CLL."
539	"PURPOSE: The phase II CLL2H trial evaluated safety and efficacy of subcutaneous alemtuzumab in patients with fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL). Clinical and biologic markers were evaluated for their impacts on outcome. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred nine patients were enrolled, and 103 received at least one dose of alemtuzumab. After dose escalation, alemtuzumab was administered subcutaneously at 30 mg three times weekly for up to 12 weeks. Response was assessed every 4 weeks during treatment and quarterly thereafter. RESULTS: The overall response rate was 34% (complete response, 4%; partial response, 30%). The median progression-free survival was 7.7 months, and the median overall survival (OS) was 19.1 months. Grades 3 to 4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia occurred in 56%, 57%, and 49% of patients, respectively. Grades 3 to 4 noncytomegalovirus and cytomegalovirus infections occurred in 29% and 8% of patients, respectively. Injection-site skin reactions were generally mild. Efficacy did not vary significantly in subgroups defined by  genetic parameters (in particular, in 17p deletion, 11q deletion, mutated TP53, and unmutated VH), but efficacy was inferior in patients with increased beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG) and thymidine kinase (TK). In multivariate analysis of clinical and biologic variables, age, performance status, beta2-MG, and TK were independent prognostic factors for OS. CONCLUSION: Subcutaneous alemtuzumab appears as effective and safe as intravenous alemtuzumab in fludarabine-refractory CLL. Subcutaneous administration should be  the preferred delivery route because of its efficacy, convenience, improved adverse effect profile, and cost savings. In contrast to chemotherapy-based therapy, alemtuzumab treatment overcomes the adverse prognostic impact of VH mutation status, TP53 mutation, and genomic aberrations."
541	"Epigenetic alterations, including gain or loss of DNA methylation, are a hallmark of nearly every malignancy. Changes in DNA methylation can impact expression of cancer-related genes including apoptosis regulators and tumor suppressors. Because such epigenetic changes are reversible, they are being aggressively investigated as potential therapeutic targets. Here we use the Emu-TCL1 transgenic mouse model of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to determine the timing and patterns of aberrant DNA methylation, and to investigate the mechanisms that lead to aberrant DNA methylation. We show that CLL cells from Emu-TCL1 mice at various stages recapitulate epigenetic alterations seen in human CLL. Aberrant methylation of promoter sequences is observed as early as 3 months  of age in these animals, well before disease onset. Abnormally methylated promoter regions include binding sites for the transcription factor FOXD3. We show that loss of Foxd3 expression due to an NF-kappaB p50/p50:HDAC1 repressor complex occurs in TCL1-positive B cells before methylation. Therefore, specific transcriptional repression is an early event leading to epigenetic silencing of target genes in murine and human CLL. These results provide strong rationale for  the development of strategies to target NF-kappaB components in CLL and potentially other B-cell malignancies."
542	"PURPOSE: To define the optimal dose of Polyphenon E for chronic daily administration and tolerability in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Previously untreated patients with asymptomatic Rai stage 0 to II CLL were eligible for participation. Polyphenon E with a standardized dose  of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) was administered using the standard phase I  design with three to six patients per dose level (range, 400 to 2,000 mg by mouth twice a day). Trough plasma EGCG levels were measured 1 month after initiation of therapy. Response was classified using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Working Group (WG) Criteria. RESULTS: Thirty-three eligible patients were accrued to dose levels 1 to 8. The maximum-tolerated dose was not reached. The most common adverse effects included  transaminitis (33%, all grade 1), abdominal pain (30% grade 1, 0% grade 2, and 3% grade 3), and nausea (39% grade 1 and 9% grade 2). One patient experienced an NCI WG partial remission. Other signs of clinical activity were also observed, with 11 patients (33%) having a sustained > or = 20% reduction in absolute lymphocyte  count (ALC) and 11 (92%) of 12 patients with palpable adenopathy experiencing at  least a 50% reduction in the sum of the products of all nodal areas during treatment. Trough plasma EGCG levels after 1 month of treatment ranged from 2.9 to 3,974 ng/mL (median, 40.4 ng/mL). CONCLUSION: Daily oral EGCG in the Polyphenon E preparation was well tolerated by CLL patients in this phase I trial. Declines in ALC and/or lymphadenopathy were observed in the majority of patients. A phase II trial to evaluate efficacy using 2,000 mg twice a day began in November 2007."
543	"We studied the actions of 2-phenylacetylenesulfonamide (PAS) on B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. PAS (5-20 microM) initiated apoptosis within 24 hours, with maximal death at 48 hours asassessed by morphology, cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), caspase 3 activation, and annexin V staining. PAS treatment induced Bax proapoptotic conformational change, Bax movement from the cytosol to the mitochondria, and cytochrome c release, indicating that PAS induced apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway. PAS induced approximately 3-fold up-regulation of proapoptotic Noxa protein and mRNA levels. In addition, Noxa was found unexpectedly to be bound to Bcl-2 in PAS-treated cells. PAS treatment of CLL cells failed to up-regulate p53, suggesting that PAS induced apoptosis independently of p53. Furthermore, PAS induced apoptosis in CLL isolates with p53 gene deletion in more than 97% of cells. Normal B lymphocytes were as sensitive to PAS-induced Noxa up-regulation and apoptosis as were CLL cells. However, both  T lymphocytes and bone marrow hematopoietic progenitor cells were relatively resistant to PAS. Our data suggest that PAS may represent a novel class of drug that induces apoptosis in CLL cells independently of p53 status by a mechanism involving Noxa up-regulation."
544	"INTRODUCTION: An increase in circulating lymphocytes can be seen following infections such as infectious mononucleosis and pertussis, or in lymphoproliferative disorders such as acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Acute lymphocytic crisis following herpes simplex virus hepatitis has not been described in the literature. CASE PRESENTATION: A 52-year-old man was admitted to our hospital reporting low-grade fever for the previous seven days, and fatigue. During the fifth day of hospitalization, the patient developed a lymphocytic crisis and, after further tests the patient was diagnosed as having herpes simplex virus hepatitis. CONCLUSION: This case report shows that herpes simplex virus type 1 is a possible cause of an acute lymphocytic crisis similar to other well known infectious agents such as Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, human immunodeficiency virus, human herpes virus type 6, adenovirus, toxoplasma and human T-cell lymphotropic virus. Furthermore, this case report expands the clinical spectrum of herpes simplex virus hepatitis, since it is reported in a nonimmunocompromised patient presenting with atypical acute lymphocytic syndrome."
545	"T-cell antigen expression can be observed in B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL). Although CD5 is expressed in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma, the presence of other T-cell antigens is less common. This  article reports a retrospective multicenter analysis in which flow cytometry was  used to evaluate aberrant CD8 expression on the pathologic B cells of 951 bone marrow samples from patients with various types of B-NHL. In a total of 18 patients, CD8 was coexpressed: 10 had B-CLL; 1, small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL); 1, marginal zone lymphoma; 1, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma; 2, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma; and 3, follicular lymphoma. There was a 1.89% overall frequency of CD8  coexpression in which B-CLL/SLL had a higher frequency (3.03%) than did the other B-cell neoplasms (1.18%). Most cases were characterized by a favorable outcome."
546	"The association among body mass index (BMI), height, and the risk of lymphatic malignancies was investigated in the Netherlands Cohort Study. The participants (n = 120,852), Dutch men and women aged 55-69 years, completed a self-administered questionnaire at baseline in 1986. After 13.3 years of follow-up, data on 1,042 lymphatic malignancy cases (including diffuse large-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, multiple myeloma, and other subtypes) and 4,588 subcohort members were available. Incidence rate ratios were estimated by using Cox regression models. BMI at baseline and BMI change since the age of 20 years were not associated with lymphatic malignancy risk. However, the rate ratio of lymphatic malignancies per 4-unit increase in BMI at 20 years of age was 1.13  (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.01, 1.25). The rate ratio of lymphatic malignancies per 5-cm increase in height was 1.08 (95% CI: 1.02, 1.15). For diffuse large-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the relative risks were 1.19 (95% CI: 1.07, 1.33), 1.15 (95% CI: 0.95,  1.40), and 1.09 (95% CI: 0.95, 1.26), respectively, for each 5-cm increase in height. The positive associations among BMI at 20 years of age, height, and the risk of lymphatic malignancies suggest that exposures during early life play a role in the etiology of lymphatic malignancies."
547	"We report a case of extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT lymphoma) in a 75-year-old woman with a neuropathy related  to high levels of serum immunoglobulin M and a history of rheumatoid arthritis and polymyositis. The patient developed a mass in the right submandibular salivary gland, and this mass demonstrated histopathologic features that are typical of MALT lymphoma, including infiltrates of small monocytoid B cells in the epithelium (forming "lymphoepithelial lesions"), a reactive background of florid germinal center hyperplasia, and follicular colonization by the monocytoid B cells. Many plasma cells in the background expressed cytoplasmic immunoglobulin M lambda, matching the serum spike. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed the presence of clonal mature B cells; however, unlike most MALT lymphomas, these cells coexpressed dim CD5. Clinical staging revealed evidence of systemic distribution with documented disease involving the bone marrow, the lung, and a paratracheal lymph node. Analysis of this unusual systemic MALT lymphoma, and a comparison with similar examples from the literature, illuminates relationships among MALT lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, and Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia."
548	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by an accumulation in  peripheral blood of many long-lived lymphocytes that do not die because of the deregulation of apoptosis. Most CLL cells are quiescent, and therefore the leukemic lymphocytes are resistant to conventional chemotherapy. The aim of this  study was to evaluate in vitro the chemosensitivity of CLL cells to cladribine or fludarabine used alone or in combinations with mafosfamide (Mf; the active form of cyclophosphamide) as well as to roscovitine, a potent inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases with proapoptotic potential. The results of flow cytometry revealed that tested agents differentially reduced the viability of leukemic cells. Interestingly, roscovitine exerts a similar cytotoxic effect as the combinations of the used purine analogs with Mf, but with other kinetics. Roscovitine kills leukemic cells after a much shorter exposure time. Immunoblotting analysis showed that the reduction of the number of living cells coincides with marked changes of the balance between pro- and antiapoptotic factors. The latter were markedly reduced. The activation of proapoptotic proteins became evident especially after exposure of cells to roscovitine alone or to combinations of purine analogs and Mf. Furthermore, exposure of CLL cells to tested drugs degraded p27(KIP1) protein. Our findings demonstrate that roscovitine alone significantly reduces the number of viable CLL cells by inducing them to undergo apoptosis, and it acts earlier than clinically applied combinations of purine analogs with Mf/cyclophosphamide. These results confirm the high efficacy of roscovitine against CLL cells."
549	"OBJECTIVE: Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) are etiologically heterogeneous malignancies. In Egypt, we previously reported an association of increased NHL risk with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Our present aim is to assess the association between HCV infection and histological subtypes of NHL. METHODS: We conducted a case-control study at the National Cancer Institute of Cairo University. Cases with NHL (n = 486) were matched to controls (n = 786) who were orthopedic patients from the same referral regions. Participants provided a  blood sample for HCV markers (anti-HCV, HCV RNA) and answered a questionnaire on  possible risk factors. Case-control differences were assessed by odds ratios and  95% confidence intervals from logistic regression analysis. RESULTS: Cases with diffuse large B cell lymphoma (n = 146), chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (n = 58), marginal zone lymphoma (n = 24), follicular lymphoma (n = 23), and mantle cell lymphoma (n = 16) were recruited. HCV RNA prevalence was 27% in controls and 26%-48% in the NHL subgroups: it was associated (p < 0.001) with diffuse large B cell, marginal zone, and follicular lymphomas with odds ratios of 3.2, 4.4, and 3.3, respectively. CONCLUSION: HCV is a risk factor for diffuse large B cell, marginal zone, and follicular lymphomas in Egypt."
550	"The lymphomas of small B lymphocytes are a biologically diverse group of B cell derived neoplasms that includes B cell small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia; mantle cell lymphoma; follicular lymphoma; nodal, splenic and extranodal marginal zone lymphomas; and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. They are  distinguished from one another on clinical, morphological, phenotypic and genetic grounds. This article reviews the essential diagnostic and biologic features of these clinically indolent B cell malignancies."
551	"Resistance to chemotherapy is an obstacle to the successful treatment of oncohematological malignances. Failure of therapeutic treatment may be due to the development of multidrug resistance (MDR), the mechanisms of which include upregulation of membrane-resident transporters that efflux chemotherapeutic drugs from tumor cells. Deregulation may occur at different levels: gene or protein expression or function depletion. Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells of adults were studied. ABCB1 (P-gp) and ABCG2 (BCRP) expression were determined by flow cytometry, rhodamine 123 (Rho123) and mitoxantrone were used for functional activity study of MDR proteins, sensitization of leukemic cells to drugs was quantified by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assays. Appropriate gene expression was determined using semi-quantitative RT-PCR. No differences between expression of P-gp and BCRP and genes in primary and relapsed acute leukemia (AL) cells as well as in de novo and treated CLL samples were established. Higher expression of P-gp and BCRP proteins was detected in CLL lymphocytes compared to blast cells. Increased P-gp protein expression and function was detected in cells of CLL patients who had more aggressive therapy regimen. Doxorubicine, rubomycinum and L-asparaginase resistance correlates with  P-gp overexpression and increased function in pediatric AL whereas vincristine resistance might be associated with P-gp protein expression in AL samples and impared P-gp function in CLL lymphocytes only. A tendency for the decreased doxorubicin cytotoxic activity was shown in BCRP-overexpressing cells both in children and adults leukemia. Multifactorial ANOVA showed that P-gp/MDR1 and BCRP as well as their function could not be used as unconditional and universal predictors of leukemia cell drug resistance in vitro. These results suggest that  studied MDR transporter-proteins have a limited role per se in vitro and admittedly in vivo drug resistance estimated in leukemia patients or it is not yet fully understood unless would not be studied in aggregate. In any event, the  expression and function studies of the proteins under investigation when singularly considered do not have a crucial significance for impact on drug resistance evaluation in all leukemia patients."
554	"BACKGROUND: BK virus, genus polyomavirus, is known as an important cause of nephropathy (BKVN) in renal transplant patients. Cases of BKVN in native kidneys  are rare. OBJECTIVES: To report a case of BKVN in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and to examine viral and immune parameters. STUDY DESIGN: Quantitative BK virus DNA in plasma and relevant immune parameters  were recorded in one CLL patient with BKVN and ten consecutive CLL patients without BKVN. RESULTS: BKVN in the native kidneys of a CLL patient was histologically confirmed. The presence of BKVN correlated with immunologic parameters as well as factors known to cause renal tissue injury. BK viral load levels in the patient steadily increased and exceeded those of the control CLL patients. CONCLUSIONS: The results document a pathogenic role for BK virus in native kidneys of immuno-compromised CLL patients and indicate a role for quantitative BK virus DNA detection for early management of BKVN in native kidneys."
555	"We evaluated the diagnostic utility of flow cytometry immunophenotyping in bone marrow aspirates and peripheral blood, in the assessment of mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (MBNHL). We analyzed 356 cases of MBNHL received for immunophenotyping over a 4 year period. All cases were reviewed, correlated with  biopsy specimen (lymph node and splenectomy). Discrepant cases were re-evaluated. Common subtypes included chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (243 cases, 68.5%), follicular lymphoma (30 cases, 8.5%), mantle cell lymphoma (20 cases, 5.5%), splenic marginal zone lymphoma (18 cases, 5%), hairy cell leukemia (18 cases, 5%). CD5+/CD23+ had a high positive predictive value (PPV) for diagnosing CLL whereas CD5+/CD23- had a high negative predictive value (NPV) for diagnosing mantle-cell lymphoma (MCL). Limited panel of 9 antibodies mainly CD19, CD5, CD23, CD10, FMC7, kappa, lambda, CD3 and CD20 help diagnose more than 92% of cases of MBNHL. Minimal diagnostic panels become important in countries with limited resources."
556	"Improved medical care could have altered the clinical presentation and survival of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) complicated by autoimmune disease cytopenia (AID cytopenia). We reviewed the clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcome of AID cytopenia that was diagnosed in 75 (4.3%) of 1750 patients with CLL seen at a single institution over 10 years. When compared with the historical reported data, our study shows a lower rate of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (2.3%), and similar rates of immune thrombocytopenia (2.0%), and pure red blood cell aplasia (0.5%). AID cytopenia occurred at all stages of CLL, responded well to treatment, did not alter overall survival, and contributed to death in only 6 (12%) patients. We propose that more sensitive and accurate diagnostic methods for CLL have decreased the perceived prevalence of AID cytopenia and that improvements in management could have increased the survival of these patients."
557	"Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are increasingly used in treatment protocols for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Here we determined (i) the extent of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) of four different mAbs against primary CLL cells, (ii) whether ADCC correlates with antigen density on CLL cells, and (iii) whether allogeneic natural killer (NK) cells display superior ADCC than autologous. Effector cells for ADCC were (i) NK-92 cells not expressing FcR, (ii) NK-92 cells transfected with a high-affinity Fc receptor, (iii) autologous NK cells from patients with CLL, (iv) allogeneic NK cells. Results suggest that ADCC contributes to killing of CLL cells by anti-CD20 antibodies (rituximab and veltuzumab), whereas mAbs against CD22 (epratuzumab) and CD23 (lumiliximab) showed minimal ADCC. The magnitude of anti-CD20 mediated ADCC did not correlate with antigen density of CD20. ADCC was not influenced by the FcR genotype expressed by autologous NK cells. Allogeneic NK cells were superior to autologous NK cells in killing primary CLL cells."
558	"Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) progression is characterized by occurrence of new  cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities. In the previous study, we have shown the important role of GATA-2 L359 V mutation in CML progression. To further ascertain the truth of transcription factor GATA-2 in hematological malignancies, we expanded our study to GATA-2 full length by directly sequencing and applied MassARRAY assay into GATA-2 L359 V mutation analysis. Finally, no GATA-2 L359 V mutation was found in 270 acute myeloid leukemia, 30 myelodysplastic syndrome, 50 acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 12 chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 40 CML chronic phase and 286 BCR/ABL negative myeloproliferative disorders except CML blast crisis. A new variation of GATA-2 resulted in P250A change was identified, which  was not found to have statistical difference between patients with hematological  malignancies and healthy control. Hence, we concluded GATA-2 L359 V is exclusively associated with CML progression but not other hematological malignancies and P250A is a new single nucleotide polymorphism."
560	"Soluble CD83 (sCD83), a potent immunosuppressive agent, circulates at elevated levels in some chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. We report that CLL patients with elevated plasma sCD83 levels had significantly shorter (P=0.038) treatment free survival. Culture of CLL cells with solid phase CD83 mAb+IL-4 significantly increases sCD83 release (23-117-fold, P=0.013) and ligation of normal donor PBMC with solid phase CD83 mAb alone induces similar significant increases in sCD83 release (P=0.003). RT-PCR analysis detected the presence of a  transcript for sCD83 in 2/3 CLL samples. These results suggest sCD83 release may  play a regulatory role in CLL progression."
561	"We conducted genome-wide association studies of non-Hodgkin lymphoma using Illumina HumanHap550 BeadChips to identify subtype-specific associations in follicular, diffuse large B-cell and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphomas. We found that rs6457327 on 6p21.33 was associated with susceptibility to follicular lymphoma (FL; N = 189 cases, 592 controls) with validation in another 456 FL cases and 2,785 controls (combined allelic P = 4.7 x 10(-11)). The region of strongest association overlapped C6orf15 (STG), located near psoriasis susceptibility region 1 (PSORS1)."
564	"Antigenic stimulation through the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) is considered to  promote the expansion of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells. The spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk), a key component of BCR signaling, can be blocked by R406,  a small-molecule Syk inhibitor, that displayed activity in CLL patients in a first clinical trial. In this study, we investigated the effects of BCR stimulation and R406 on CLL cell survival and migration. The prosurvival effects  promoted by anti-IgM stimulation and nurselike cells were abrogated by R406. BCR  triggering up-regulated adhesion molecules, and increased CLL cell migration toward the chemokines CXCL12 and CXCL13. BCR activation also enhanced CLL cell migration beneath marrow stromal cells. These responses were blocked by R406, which furthermore abrogated BCR-dependent secretion of T-cell chemokines (CCL3 and CCL4) by CLL cells. Finally, R406 inhibited constitutive and BCR-induced activation of Syk, extracellular signal-regulated kinases, and AKT, and blocked BCR-induced calcium mobilization. These findings suggest that BCR activation favors CLL cell homing, retention, and survival in tissue microenvironments. R406 effectively blocks these BCR-dependent responses in CLL cells, providing an explanation for the activity of R406 in patients with CLL."
565	"To determine the clinical fate of patients with de novo deletion 17p13.1 (17p-) chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we retrospectively studied the outcome of 99  treatment-naive 17p- CLL patients from the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center (n = 64)  and the Mayo Clinic (n = 35). Among 67 asymptomatic patients followed for progression, 53% developed CLL requiring treatment over 3 years. Patients who had not progressed by 18 months subsequently had stable disease, with 3 of 19 patients progressing after follow-up of up to 70 months. Risk factors for progressive disease were Rai stage of 1 or higher and unmutated immunoglobulin variable region heavy chain (IgVH). The overall survival rate was 65% at 3 years. Rai stage 1 or higher, unmutated IgVH, and 17p- in 25% or more of nuclei were adverse factors for survival. The 3-year survival rates of patients with 1 or fewer, 2, and 3 of these factors were 95%, 74%, and 22%, respectively (P < .001). Response rates to therapy with rituximab (n = 6); purine analogues and rituximab  (n = 25); and purine analogues, rituximab, and alemtuzumab (n = 16) combinations  were 50%, 72%, and 81%, respectively. Patients with 17p- CLL exhibit clinical heterogeneity, with some patients experiencing an indolent course. Survival can be predicted using clinical and biologic characteristics."
566	"We report a case of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy developing in a fludarabine-naïve patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We suggest that progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy should be considered in any chronic lymphocytic leukemia patient with unexplained neurological symptoms. Treatment history does not necessarily require fludarabine. Intrathecal cytosine arabinoside although unsuccessful in this patient, is a therapeutic option to consider in patients experiencing side effects from systemic therapy."
568	"Advances in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have improved initial overall response (OR) rates, complete response (CR) rates and progression free survival (PFS). Despite these advances, CLL remains incurable with standard  therapies. Thus, there remains a need for more effective therapies in both the upfront and relapsed setting, particularly for patients with high-risk cytogenetic abnormalities such as del(11q22) and del(17p13). The 2008 American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting featured several presentations which highlighted the ongoing clinical advances in CLL. The benefit of adding rituximab to purine analog therapy in the upfront setting was demonstrated by a large randomized study which showed that the addition of rituximab to fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FCR) significantly improved OR, CR and PFS. The improvement in  PFS directly resulted from an improved ability to eliminate minimal residual disease (MRD) in the peripheral blood, highlighting the importance of MRD eradication. However, a multi-center study suggested that the high CR rates to chemoimmunotherapy regimens such as FCR obtained in academic centers may not be reproducible when the same regimens are given in the community setting. The immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide is active in relapsed high-risk CLL, but two studies of lenalidomide in previously untreated CLL patients failed to achieve a  CR and were associated with significant tumor lysis, tumor flare and hematologic  toxicity. In the relapsed setting, a combination study of the bifunctional alkylator bendamustine and rituximab (BR) demonstrated a high OR rate in patients with del(11q22) and del(17p13), indicating that further studies to define's bendamustine activity are warranted in high-risk CLL. Similarly, the CDK inhibitor flavopiridol demonstrated significant clinical activity and durable remissions in heavily treated, refractory CLL patients with high-risk cytogenetic features and bulky lymphadenopathy. The monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody ofatumumab  appeared to be superior to rituximab in relapsed CLL patients with bulky nodal disease or high-risk cytogenetic features. Ongoing studies of these agents and other novel therapeutic agents in clinical development hold forth the promise that treatment options for CLL patients will continue to expand and improve."
570	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is one of the most common lymphoid malignancies in Western countries, but is infrequent in Asian populations. To verify the incidence of trisomy 8 in Chinese patients with CLL, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was used in 140 CLL patients after routine chromosome analysis. Only two patients (1.4%) were found with trisomy 8, and the number of trisomy 8 cells was 8 and 10%, respectively. No other aberrations by "panel" probe FISH were found in these two patients. The chromosome karyotypes of two patients were 47,XY,+8[2]/49,XY,+14,+20,+21[2]/46,XY[16] and 47,XX,+8[2]/46,XX[18], respectively. Neither of the patients' present signs of myelodysplastic or myeloproliferative disorder appeared on the bone marrow aspirates and peripheral blood smear. Our study demonstrates that trisomy 8 is rare in CLL, and its role in prognosis of CLL remains unknown."
574	"Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) indicates the presence of less than 5 x 10(9)/L circulating monoclonal B cells in otherwise healthy subjects. Recently, it has been reported that circulating chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)-like B cells can be detected using 4- or 5-multicolor flow cytometry in 5% to 7% of adults with normal lymphocyte counts. We investigated the frequency of circulating monoclonal B cells in 608 healthy subjects older than 40 years with normal blood counts, using a highly sensitive 8-color flow cytometry approach and systematic screening for total PB leukocyte count higher than 5 x 10(6). We show  that the frequency of PB monoclonal B cells is markedly higher than previously reported (12% for CLL-like B cells, found at frequencies of 0.17 +/- 0.13 x 10(9) cells/L), the incidence progressively increasing with age. Most cases (62%) showed clonal B-cell levels below the maximum sensitivity of the techniques described by others (< 0.01%), supporting the notion that detection of MBL may largely depend on the sensitivity of the flow cytometry approach used."
576	"In the revised National Cancer Institute Working Group (NCI-WG)/International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) guidelines for CLL, CLL-like monoclonal B lymphocytosis (MBL) is defined as the presence of less than 5 x 10(9)/L B lymphocytes in the peripheral blood. However, the concentration of MBL  in the blood is extremely variable. MBL in subjects with lymphocytosis require treatment at a rate of 1.1% per year and present immunoglobulin (IG) gene features and similar to good prognosis CLL. Little is known about low-count MBL cases, accidentally found in the general population. We analyzed IGHV-D-J rearrangements in 51 CLL-like MBL cases from healthy individuals, characterized by few clonal B cells. Seventy percent of the IGHV genes were mutated. The most frequent IGHV gene was IGHV4-59/61, rarely used in CLL, whereas the IGHV1-69 gene was lacking and the IGHV4-34 gene was infrequent. Only 2 of 51 (3.9%) MBL cases expressed a CLL-specific stereotyped HCDR3. Therefore, the IG gene repertoire in  low-count MBL differs from both mutated and unmutated CLL, suggesting that the detection of MBL in an otherwise healthy subject is not always equivalent to a preleukemic state. Detailed IG analysis of individual MBL may help to identify cases that necessitate continuous clinical monitoring to anticipate disease progression."
577	"Pegfilgrastim (PEGFIL) has been found to be comparable to daily filgrastim (FIL)  in managing chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. In the present study, we evaluated  the ability of PEGFIL to mobilize stem cells in 38 consecutive patients with lymphoproliferative diseases (multiple myeloma, n = 18; lymphomas, n = 15; chronic lymphocytic leukemia, n = 5). Patients were mobilized using PEGFIL (6-18  mg as a single dose) during 2005-2006; 32 then received high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation. PEGFIL-mobilized patients were  matched by age, disease, and treatment line at a ratio of 1:2 to historical FIL-mobilized controls. The primary study endpoint was the blood CD34(+) concentration at onset of leukapheresis. Leukapheresis began a median of 10 days  from the beginning of mobilization chemotherapy in both groups. At the onset of leukapheresis, median blood CD34(+) cell counts did not differ significantly in the FIL group compared with the PEGFIL group (79 x 10(6)/L vs 64 x 10(6)/L, respectively; p = 0.44). In the different disease categories, the respective CD34(+) cell counts after FIL and PEGFIL mobilization were 72 x 10(6)/L vs 123 x  10(6)/L (p = 0.08) in myeloma, 51 x 10(6)/L vs 62 x 10(6)/L (p = 0.6) in lymphomas, and 27 x 10(6)/L vs 30 x 10(6)/L (p = 0.62) in CLL, respectively. The  target CD34(+) cell yield was harvested with one leukapheresis in 53% of PEGFIL-mobilized patients. Engraftment after autografting did not differ significantly in the two groups. Stem cell mobilization with a single dose of PEGFIL was, therefore, comparable to that achieved using daily FIL in patients with lymphoproliferative diseases. PEGFIL is a more practical way to mobilize stem cells than daily FIL."
578	"BACKGROUND AND AIMS: B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by the progressive accumulation of small B lymphocytes that do not undergo apoptosis due to an underlying defect. One potential mechanism of defective apoptosis may be irregular cytokine production. The goal of our investigation was to determine  in vitro production of relevant cytokines by lymphocytes of B-CLL patients. METHODS: Thirty untreated (stage A) B-CLL patients, as well as 20 stage B and C patients and 30 healthy volunteers as a control group were examined. Interleukin-4 (IL-4), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin-10 (IL-10) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in supernatants of lymphocyte cultures of all three investigated groups. The method applied for detecting apoptosis was fluorescence  microscopic analysis using acridine orange/ethidium bromide (AO/EB) double staining. RESULTS: Investigation showed that in vitro lymphocyte production of IL-10 and IFN-gamma were significantly decreased in B-CLL patients, whereas there were no statistically significantly differences of IL-4 and TNF-alpha production among the tested groups. Compared with the spontaneous apoptosis observed in control subjects' lymphocytes, B-CLL lymphocytes showed increased percentages of apoptotic cells after incubation for 24h. Interestingly, increased spontaneous apoptosis of B-CLL lymphocytes was followed by decreased IL-10 and IFN-gamma production. Stage of disease did not influence B-CLL lymphocyte spontaneous apoptosis in vitro. CONCLUSIONS: These changes in cytokine production in cultures of B-CLL lymphocytes may be one of the potential mechanisms in the pathogenesis of abnormal apoptosis."
579	"The development of resistance to purine analogs defines a poor-risk subset of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Although in recent years chemoimmunotherapeutic combinations such as fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab have induced response rates of 95% in previously untreated patients and increased the rates of failure-free survival, CLL remains incurable for many patients because of a lack of disease response or the development of refractoriness to fludarabine. Fludarabine-refractory disease is defined as CLL that does not respond to fludarabine or that recurs within 6 months of treatment  with a fludarabine-containing regimen. The natural course of the disease is associated with poor survival. Salvage therapeutic strategies include alemtuzumab-containing regimens, targeted agents, and allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Single-agent alemtuzumab induces response in up to 40% of patients with fludarabine-refractory CLL, but responses are not durable, and the  median survival is approximately 1 to 2 years. Alemtuzumab is also combined with  fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and/or rituximab, and other agents such as lenalidomide and flavopiridol, as well as targeted agents, and used in fludarabine-refractory CLL. Cumulative evidence suggests that allogeneic stem cell transplantation is an efficacious therapeutic strategy for patients who do not respond to fludarabine or who develop disease recurrence within 12 months after purine analog treatment. In conclusion, chemoimmunotherapy regimens that include alemtuzumab and/or rituximab and allogeneic stem cell transplantation improve the prognosis of this disease, but there is a continued need for novel, more effective therapies."
580	"OBJECTIVE: As factors that alter the immune system have been implicated in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) etiology, it is of interest to explore the association between vaccination and risk of NHL. Results of few epidemiologic studies conducted thus far are inconsistent, and only one has examined the association by histologic subtype. SUBJECTS: A population-based, case-control study of 387 patients with NHL and 535 controls conducted in Nebraska between 1999 and 2002. METHODS: Information on vaccination for tetanus, polio, influenza, smallpox, and  tuberculosis, as well as important environmental factors, was collected by telephone interview. Risk was estimated by odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs), adjusting for confounders. RESULTS: We found that NHL risk was inversely associated with ever receiving a polio (OR = 0.59, CI = 0.40-0.87) or smallpox (OR = 0.71, CI = 0.51-0.98) vaccination, and positively associated with influenza vaccination (OR = 1.53, CI  = 1.14-2.06). No significant association was found for tetanus or tuberculosis vaccination. The patterns of association were similar between men and women. Analysis by histologic subtypes showed that polio vaccination was associated with a lower risk of follicular (OR = 0.54, CI = 0.31-0.92) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphomas (OR = 0.29, CI = 0.12-0.69) and smallpox vaccination was associated with a lower risk of marginal zone lymphoma (OR = 0.41, CI = 0.19-0.88). In contrast, ever receiving an influenza vaccination was associated with a higher risk of follicular (OR = 1.98, CI = 1.23-3.18) and diffuse large B cell lymphomas (OR = 1.88, CI = 1.13-3.12). CONCLUSION: Risk of NHL is inversely associated with polio and smallpox vaccination and positively associated with influenza vaccination. These associations appear to differ by histologic subtype."
581	"Association of myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) with lymphoproliferative neoplasm (LPN) has been occasionally reported. The aim of this study, which included 353 patients with polycythemia vera and 467 with essential thrombocythemia, was to assess whether the risk of developing LPN is increased in MPN patients. Expected numbers of LPN incident cases were calculated based on 5-year age group, gender, and calendar time-specific cancer incidence rates in the general population of the same area. Standardized incidence ratios were computed to estimate the relative risk of developing LPN. Analyses were carried out for the whole series and then separately for essential thrombocythemia and polycythemia vera, gender, and JAK2V617F genotype. With 4,421 person-years, we found 11 patients developing LPN, including four chronic lymphocytic leukemias, five non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and two plasma cell disorders, after a median interval time of 68 months from MPN diagnosis. Cumulative risk to develop LPN at  5 and 10 years was 0.93% (95% confidence interval, 0.39-2.22) and 2.96% (95% confidence interval, 1.52-5.72), respectively. There was a 3.44-fold increased risk of LPN compared with the general population, ranging from 2.86 for plasma cell disorder to 12.42 for chronic lymphocytic leukemia; the risk was significantly increased in JAK2V617F mutated patients (5.46-fold) and in males (4.52-fold). The JAK2V617F mutation was found in lymphoid tumor cells in two of three cases evaluated, indicating that, in some patients, LPN originated in a JAK2V617F mutated common lymphoid-myeloid hematopoietic progenitor cell. We conclude that the risk of developing LPN is significantly increased in MPN patients compared with the general population."
582	"B-cell receptor signaling contributes to apoptosis resistance in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), limiting the efficacy of current therapeutic approaches. In this study, we investigated the expression of spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK), a key component of the B-cell receptor signaling pathway, in CLL and its role in apoptosis. Gene expression profiling identified enhanced expression of SYK and downstream pathways in CLL compared with healthy B cells. Immunoblotting showed increased expression and phosphorylation of SYK, PLCgamma(2), signal transducers and activators of transcription 3, and extracellular signal regulated kinase 1/2 in CLL compared with healthy B cells, suggesting enhanced activation of these mediators in CLL. SYK inhibitors reduced  phosphorylation of SYK downstream targets and induced apoptosis in primary CLL cells. With respect to prognostic factors, SYK inhibitors exerted stronger cytotoxic effects in unmutated and ZAP70(+) cases. Cytotoxic effects of SYK inhibitors also associated with SYK protein expression, potentially predicting response to therapy. Combination of fludarabine with SYK Inhibitor II or R406 increased cytotoxicity compared with fludarabine therapy alone. We observed no stroma-contact-mediated drug resistance for SYK inhibitors as described for fludarabine treatment. CD40 ligation further enhanced efficacy of SYK inhibition. Our data provide mechanistic insight into the recently observed therapeutic effects of the SYK inhibitor R406 in CLL. Combination of SYK inhibitors with fludarabine might be a novel treatment option particularly for CLL patients with  poor prognosis and should be further evaluated in clinical trials."
583	"The Syk kinase is regarded as a promising target for the treatment of antigen-driven B-cell malignancies, considering its essential role in propagating antigenic stimuli through the B-cell receptor (BCR). In certain common B-cell malignancies Syk is activated even in the absence of BCR engagement, suggesting a wider role for this kinase in lymphomagenesis. In this paper, we have profiled molecular differences between BCR-induced and constitutive Syk activation in terms of phosphorylation of regulatory tyrosine residues, downstream signaling properties and capacity to sustain B-cell proliferation. Analysis of primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia B-cells and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cell lines revealed that constitutive and BCR-induced Syk activation differ with respect to  the phosphorylation status of the regulatory tyrosines at positions 352 and 525/526, with only the first site being phosphorylated in the case of constitutive and both sites in the case of BCR-induced Syk activation. Syk phosphorylated only on Y352 is capable of downstream signaling, as evidenced by experiments with a phosphomimetic mutant in which the activation loop tyrosines (YY525/526) were replaced with phenylalanines. However, phosphorylation at YY525/526 was shown to significantly increase the enzymatic activity of Syk and to be required for sustained PLCgamma2, Akt and ERK signaling as well as B-cell transformation. These data demonstrate that constitutively active Syk and Syk activated by BCR crosslinking represent separate stages of Syk activation with distinct signaling properties and transforming capacities."
584	"PURPOSE: Few biological prognosticators are useful for prediction of Richter syndrome (RS), representing the transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to aggressive lymphoma. Stereotyped B-cell receptors (BCR) may have prognostic effect in CLL progression. We tested the prognostic effect of stereotyped BCR for predicting RS transformation. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The prevalence of stereotyped BCR was compared in RS (n = 69) versus nontransformed CLL (n = 714) by a case-control analysis. Subsequently, the effect of stereotyped BCR at CLL diagnosis on risk of RS transformation was actuarially assessed in a consecutive CLL series (n = 753). RESULTS: RS (n = 69) displayed a higher prevalence of stereotyped BCR (P < 0.001) compared with nontransformed CLL. The actuarial risk of RS transformation was significantly higher in CLL carrying stereotyped BCR (P < 0.001). Among BCR subsets most represented in CLL, subset 8 using IGHV4-39/IGHD6-13/IGHJ5 carried the highest risk of RS transformation [hazard ratio (HR), 24.50; P < 0.001]. Multivariate analysis selected stereotyped BCR (HR, 3.33; P = 0.001) and IGHV4-39 usage (HR, 4.03; P = 0.004) as independent predictors of RS transformation. The combination of IGHV4-39 usage and stereotyped BCR in the same patient identified  CLL with a very high risk of RS transformation (5-year risk, 68.7%). The risk carried by stereotyped BCR and IGHV4-39 usage was specific for RS transformation  and had no effect on CLL progression without transformation. CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of BCR features may help identify CLL patients at risk of RS. A close monitoring and a careful biopsy policy may help early recognition of  RS in CLL patients using stereotyped BCR, particularly if combined with IGHV4-39."
586	"BACKGROUND: There is a need for development of new drugs for treatment of B-cell  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), especially for poor-prognostic subgroups resistant to conventional therapy. OBJECTIVE: The in vitro antileukemic activity of 20 different anticancer agents was characterized in tumor cells from CLL, aiming at identifying agents active in poor-prognostic subgroups. DESIGN AND METHODS: In tumor cells from 40 CLL patients and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from three healthy controls, the activity of 20 substances was assessed using a non-clonogenic assay. The CLL samples were characterized regarding genomic aberrations by interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization and immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) gene mutational status. RESULTS: In line with clinical experience, cells from patients with unfavourable  genomic aberrations [del(11q)/del(17p)] showed lower drug sensitivity to fludarabine and chlorambucil than cells from patients with favourable cytogenetics [del(13q)/no aberration]. Most investigated drugs demonstrated similar activity in CLL cells from patients with unmutated and mutated IGHV genes as well as in CLL cells vs. PBMC. Interestingly, prednisolone and rolipram displayed high CLL specificity, high activity in CLL cells with unmutated IGHV genes and retained the effect in several cases with 11q/17p deletion. Further studies on prednisolone and rolipram revealed a synergy when these agents were combined in CLL cells, and suggested correlation between drug sensitivity and difference in downstream signaling. CONCLUSION: Prednisolone and rolipram are interesting for further studies in CLL  with inferior prognosis. The study can also be considered a basis for future efforts to find drugs active in subsets of CLL patients that are resistant to conventional therapy."
587	"BACKGROUND: Bendamustine is now approved in the US for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and is currently being explored in the treatment of several solid tumor types. OBJECTIVE: The bi-functionality of bendamustine was used to provide a therapeutic understanding of both its benefit as well as adverse effects. METHODS: Pertinent biochemistry and molecular biology pathways are reviewed with  regards to bendamustine activity. In view of these pathways bendamustine was reviewed in human clinical trials. RESULTS/CONCLUSION: Bendamustine combines alkylating properties with purine analogue properties making it an effective drug in chronic lymphocytic leukemia where agents that affect these pathways have proven useful. There is limited evidence of cross-reactivity with this agent and other pure purine analogues and  alkylators."
590	"The CD20 mAb ofatumumab (OFA) is more effective than rituximab (RTX) in promoting complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) of B cells via the classical pathway (CP) of complement. CP activation is initiated by C1q binding to cell-bound IgG. Therefore, we examined the role of C1q in the dynamics of complement activation and CDC of B cell lines and primary cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic  leukemia, reacted with OFA or RTX. C1q binding, complement activation, and colocalization of C1q with cell-bound mAbs were determined by flow cytometry and  high-resolution digital imaging. C1q binds avidly to OFA-opsonized Raji and Daudi cells (K(D) = 12-16 nM) and colocalizes substantially with cell-bound OFA. Cells  opsonized with OFA undergo high levels of complement activation and CDC in C1q-depleted serum supplemented with low concentrations of C1q. Under comparable  conditions, RTX-opsonized cells bind less C1q; in addition, even when higher concentrations of C1q are used to achieve comparable C1q binding to RTX-opsonized cells, less complement activation and CDC are observed. Greater CDC induced by OFA may occur because C1q is bound in close proximity and with high avidity to OFA, resulting in effective CP activation. Moreover, OFA binds to the small, extracellular CD20 loop, placing the mAb considerably closer to the cell membrane than does RTX. This may facilitate effective capture and concentration of activated complement components closer to the cell membrane, potentially shielding them from inactivation by fluid phase agents and promoting efficient generation of the membrane attack complex."
591	"Deletions of chromosome 13q14 are common in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and other cancers, demonstrating the importance of this region in tumorigenesis. We report the use of two single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based techniques to determine 13q loss of heterozygosity (LOH) status in 15 patients with CLL: (i) digital SNP (dSNP), where analysis of heterozygous SNPs detects allelic imbalances, and (ii) DNA sequencing, where LOH is identified by comparison of allelic peak heights in normal and neoplastic cells. The SNP-based techniques were compared with established molecular techniques, fluorescence in situ hybridization and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification, to determine  their utility and relative sensitivity. dSNP proved to be the most sensitive technique, identifying 13q14 LOH in 11 of 13 (85%) patients (95% CI: 55%, 98%) without the need for neoplastic cell enrichment. Three cases showed evidence of LOH by dSNP that was not apparent by other techniques. In 8 of 13 (62%) cases, partial or interstitial patterns of LOH were observed by dSNP. Our findings demonstrate that dSNP represents a useful, sensitive technique for the analysis of chromosomal aberrations that result in LOH. It may have applications for the analysis of other malignancies that are difficult to assess by conventional molecular techniques."
593	"The combination of the neoplastic accumulation of mature B lymphocytes with the presence of autoimmune phenomena is a characteristic finding in chronic B cell lymphoproliferative disorders, particularly chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Identification of mechanisms linking neoplasia to the autoimmune defects is important for a better understanding and improving the treatment of these conditions. Among such mechanisms, the B cell activator factor (BAFF) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), two members of the tumor necrosis factor family, play an important role. BAFF and APRIL have both been associated with autoimmunity, with their underlying mechanism of action most likely being related to the rescue of autoreactive B cells. In addition, BAFF and APRIL are crucial in B cell development and homeostasis particularly via the activation of NF-kappaB pathway-mediated survival signals. These two proteins, therefore, constitute a paradigm of pathophysiological defects linking neoplasia and autoimmunity, thereby providing a better understanding of chronic B cell lymphoproliferative disorders."
594	"A 54-year-old male presented to our hospital for evaluation of peripheral lymphocytosis. He was initially diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and treated with six cycles of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab chemotherapy. Therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome (t-MDS) was suspected approximately 2 years later; in addition, complex karyotypic abnormalities including 5q deletion, monosomy 7, and der(17)t(12;17)(q13;p13) were found repeatedly in the patient's chromosome studies. The chromosomal abnormality der(17)t(12;17)(q13;p13) is very rare in hematologic malignancies, and has been reported in only two patients with therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (t-AML). To our knowledge, this is the first report of t-MDS with der(17)t(12;17)(q13;p13) after treatment for CLL. In addition, we suggest that der(17)t(12;17)(q13;p13) should be considered a new recurrent, nonrandom chromosomal abnormality in patients with t-MDS/AML."
595	"In this study we attempted to assess interactions of thalidomide with fludarabine in terms of their effect on DNA damage and apoptosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. The experiments were done in ex vivo short-term cell cultures of peripheral blood cells from newly diagnosed untreated patients. We analyzed phosphorylation of histone H2AX on Ser139 (gammaH2AX), reporter of DNA damage, and expression of activated caspase-3, as a marker of apoptosis. Modest increase in expression of gammaH2AX caused by thalidomide was observed in samples of some analyzed patients. The increase in expression of gammaH2AX was also seen  in leukemic TK6 cells treated with thalidomide. While treatment of CLL cells with thalidomide alone had no significant effect on apoptosis the treatment with thalidomide+fludarabine had greater than the additive effect on frequency of apoptotic cells. The data suggest that oxidative DNA damage likely induced by thalidomide sensitizes CLL cells to undergo apoptosis in response to fludarabine."
596	"Ofatumumab is an anti-CD20 IgG1kappa human monoclonal antibody that is being considered by the US Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency for marketing approval as a treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The mAb is also being studied as a treatment for lymphoma, rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis. The candidate targets the same antigen as rituximab, but  ofatumumab binds a novel, membrane-proximal epitope, and dissociates from its target at a slower rate compared to rituximab. Ofatumumab might be approved in the US by August 2009."
597	"We used shotgun proteomics to identify plasma membrane and lipid raft proteins purified from B cells obtained from mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients in leukemic phase. Bioinformatics identified 111 transmembrane proteins, some of which were profiled in primary MCL cases, MCL-derived cell lines, and normal B cells using RT-PCR and Western blotting. Several transmembrane proteins, including CD27, CD70, and CD31 (PECAM-1), were overexpressed when compared with normal B cells. CD70 was up-regulated (>10-fold) in three of five MCL patients along with its cognate receptor CD27, which was up-regulated (4-9-fold) in five of five patients, suggesting that MCL cells may undergo autocrine stimulation via this signaling pathway. Activated calpain I and protein kinase C betaII were also detected in the plasma membranes, suggesting that these proteins are constitutively active in MCL. Protein kinase C betaII has been associated with lipid rafts, and shotgun proteomics/protein profiling revealed that key lipid raft proteins, raftlin (four of five patients) and CSK (C-terminal Src kinase)-binding protein (Cbp)/phosphoprotein associated with glycosphingolipid-enriched microdomains (PAG) (four of four patients) were down-regulated in MCL. Levels of other known lipid raft proteins, such as Lyn kinase and flotillin 1, were similar to normal B cells. However, 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO), a key enzyme in leukotriene biosynthesis, was associated with lipid rafts and was up-regulated approximately 7-fold in MCL compared with normal B cells. Significantly inhibitors of 5-LO activity (AA861) and 5-LO-activating protein (FLAP) (MK886, its activating enzyme) induced apoptosis in MCL cell lines and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, indicating an important role for the  leukotriene biosynthetic pathway in MCL and other B cell malignancies. Thus, using shotgun proteomics and mRNA and protein expression profiling we identified  a subset of known and unknown transmembrane proteins with aberrant expression in  MCL plasma membranes. These proteins may play a role in the pathology of the disease and are potential therapeutic targets in MCL."
598	"The mainstay of therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is cytotoxic chemotherapy; however, CLL is still an incurable disease with resistance to therapy developing in the majority of patients. In recent years, our understanding of the biological basis of CLL pathogenesis has substantially improved and novel treatment strategies are emerging. Tailoring and individualizing therapy according to the molecular and cellular biology of the disease is on the horizon, and advances with targeted agents such as monoclonal antibodies combined with traditional chemotherapy have lead to improved remission rates. The proposed key role of the B-cell receptor (BCR) in CLL pathogenesis has led to a number of possible opportunities for therapeutic exploitation. We are beginning to understand that the microenvironment is of utmost importance in CLL  because certain T-cell subsets and stromal cells support the outgrowth and development of the malignant clone. Furthermore, an increase in our understanding of the deregulated cell-death machinery in CLL is a prerequisite to developing new targeted strategies that might be more effective in engaging with the cell-death machinery. This Review summarizes the progress made in understanding these features of CLL biology and describes novel treatment strategies that have  also been exploited in current clinical trials."
601	"Gene expression profiling (GEP) of 8 stage 0/I untreated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) patients showed over-expression of Frizzled 3 (FZD3)/ROR-1 receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), FLT-3 RTK and CXCR3 G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR). RT-PCR of 24 genes in 21 patients of the WNT pathway corroborated the GEP. Transforming growth factorβ, fibromodulin, TGFβRIII and SMAD2 are also over-expressed by GEP. Serum cytokine profiling of 26 low stage patients showed elevation of IFNγ, CSF3, Flt-3L and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 4. In order to ascertain why CLL cells grow poorly in culture, a GEP of 4 CLL patients cells at 0 hr and 24 hr in culture demonstrated over expression of CXCL5, CCL2 and CXCL3, that may recruit immune cells for survival. Treatment with thalidomide, an immunomodulatory agent, showed elevation of CCL5 by GEP but was not cytotoxic to CLL cells. Our data suggest an interplay of several oncogenic pathways, cytokines and immune cells that promote a survival program in CLL."
602	"2009 marks the 100th anniversary of the first description of Pneumocystis, an organism that was ignored for much of its first 50 years but that has subsequently been recognized as an important pathogen of immunocompromised patients, especially patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). We present a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who died from Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) despite appropriate anti-Pneumocystis therapy. Although substantial advances in diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of PCP have decreased its frequency and improved prognosis, PCP continues to be seen in both  HIV-infected patients and patients receiving immunosuppressive medications. Pneumocystis species comprise a family of fungi, each of which appears to be able to infect only 1 host species. Pneumocystis has a worldwide distribution. Immunocompetent hosts clear infection without obvious clinical consequences. Pneumocystis has been identified in patients with other diseases such as chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease, although its clinical impact is uncertain. Immunocompromised patients develop disease as a consequence of reinfection and possibly reactivation of latent infection. In patients with HIV infection, the CD4 count is predictive of the risk for developing PCP, but such reliable markers are not available for other immunocompromised populations. In the majority of patients with PCP, multiple Pneumocystis strains can be identified using recently developed typing techniques. Because Pneumocystis cannot be cultured, diagnosis relies on detection of the organism by colorimetric or immunofluorescent stains or by polymerase chain reaction. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is the preferred drug regimen for both treatment and prevention of PCP, although a number of alternatives are also available. Corticosteroids are an important adjunct for hypoxemic patients."
606	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was previously considered a uniform disease characterized by autonomous over-expression of bcl-2. Recently the pathogenic role of bcl-2 has been questioned and attention has turned to prognostic subtypes of CLL differing in CD38 and ZAP-70 expression. However, the relationship between bcl-2 and CD38 or ZAP-70 expression remains uncertain and was investigated using  flow cytometric immunophenotyping of 50 CLL specimens. CLL cells were consistently bcl-2 positive but varied in expression level: mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) 45-152. Although there was no significant difference in bcl-2 expression between CD38 or ZAP-70 positive and negative specimens, an inverse correlation was identified between percentage of CD38 positive B-cells and bcl-2  MFI when all (p<0.03, r(2)=0.10) and peripheral blood (p<0.004, r(2)=0.27) samples were analyzed. While bcl-2 levels do not appear to be a major discriminator between indolent and more aggressive subtypes of CLL, CD38 and bcl-2 expression appear to be interrelated."
607	"The ATM-p53 pathway plays an important role in the biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Its functional integrity can be probed by exposing CLL cells to ionizing radiation (IR) and measuring levels of p53 protein and one of its transcriptional targets, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21. We have previously identified two abnormal p53/p21 response patterns associated with inactivating mutations of TP53 and ATM, respectively. Here, we describe a third abnormal response pattern characterized by failure of p21 protein accumulation despite a normal p53 protein response. This so-called "type C" response was detected in 10.6% of unselected patients and was associated with resistance of CLL cells to p53-dependent killing by IR, with the clinically more aggressive variant of CLL characterized by unmutated immunoglobulin heavy-chain genes and with a single nucleotide polymorphism at codon 31 of the p21 gene in which Ser is replaced by Arg. CLL samples with this allelic variant displayed impaired IR-induced up-regulation of total p21 mRNA and did not express the Arg-encoding transcript, except in those cases harboring an additional single nucleotide polymorphism (T instead of C) in the 3'-untranslated region of the same p21 allele. Our data provide new insight into the importance of p21 in CLL biology."
610	"Bcl-2 is the founding member of a large family of apoptosis regulating proteins.  Bcl-2 is a prime target for novel therapeutics because it is elevated in many forms of cancer and contributes to cancer progression and therapy resistance based on its ability to inhibit apoptosis. Bcl-2 interacts with proapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family to inhibit apoptosis and small molecules that disrupt this interaction have already entered the cancer therapy arena. A separate function of Bcl-2 is to inhibit Ca2+ signals that promote apoptosis. This function is mediated through interaction of the Bcl-2 BH4 domain with the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) Ca2+ channel. A novel peptide inhibitor of this interaction enhances proapoptotic Ca2+ signals. In preliminary  experiments this peptide enhanced ABT-737 induced apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. These findings draw attention to the BH4 domain as a  potential therapeutic target. This review summarizes what is currently known about the BH4 domain of Bcl-2, its interaction with the IP3R and other proteins,  and the part it plays in Bcl-2's anti-apoptotic function. In addition, we speculate on how the BH4 domain of Bcl-2 can be targeted therapeutically not only for diseases associated with apoptosis resistance, but also for diseases associated with accelerated cell death."
611	"Patients with isolated axillary lymphadenopathy are often referred to rapid-access breast clinics for diagnostic evaluation. In the absence of a discernable breast primary, tissue diagnosis has conventionally been pursued using open biopsy. We aimed to assess the value of freehand needle core biopsy (FNCB) as an alternative to this. A prospective audit was conducted over 6 years  from 2002 to 2008. Twenty-eight procedures were performed, all carried out under  local anaesthesia in the outpatient setting. The majority of cases (10) revealed  metastatic breast cancer. Other diagnoses included metastatic ovarian cancer (2), metastatic melanoma (3), lymphoma (4), silicone granuloma (1) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (1). Seven patients had inconclusive histology necessitating further open biopsy. This revealed primary lymphoma in 6 cases and benign histology in one. FNCB thus avoided the need for diagnostic excision biopsy in 75% (21/28) patients. However, it was found to be less useful in diagnosing de-novo lymphoma."
612	"The usual, initial therapy of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) involves alkylating agents, corticosteroids, purine analogs, and monoclonal antibodies. The combination of these agents may lead to high complete and overall response rates, but all patients inevitably relapse, and median progression-free  survival varies between 16 and 48 months. Further, these treatments present the risk of myelosuppression and infection, so that some of the combination regimens  require antibiotic, antiviral, and antimycotic prophylaxis during and after their administration. We treated 4 patients with previously untreated progressive stage I Rai CCL, with a combination of cyclophosphamide, somatostatin, bromocriptine, retinoids, melatonin, and ACTH. All the patients had partial remission after 2 months and continued treatment, which was gradually reduced if lymphocyte count fell below 4000/microL. No patients had disease recurrence, and progression-free  survival has not yet been reached (125, 121, 73, and 21 months, respectively). Toxicity was absent, and patients underwent the treatment at home, while carrying out their normal activities."
613	"In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), malignant B cells and nonmalignant T cells exhibit dysfunction. We previously demonstrated that infection of CLL cells with  modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) expressing the costimulatory molecules B7-1, ICAM-1, and LFA-3 (designated TRICOM) increased expression of these costimulatory molecules on the surface of CLL cells and thus augmented their antigen-presenting capability. Here, we evaluate the effect of MVA-TRICOM-modified CLL cells on T cells. Following incubation with irradiated MVA-TRICOM-modified CLL cells, allogeneic and autologous CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells expressed significantly higher levels of B7-1, ICAM-1, and LFA-3. We show that this increase was the result of physical acquisition from the antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and that purified T cells that acquired costimulatory molecules from MVA-TRICOM-modified CLL cells were able to stimulate the proliferation of untreated T cells. These results demonstrate for the first time that T cells from CLL patients can acquire multiple costimulatory molecules from autologous CLL cells and can then act as APCs themselves. Given the immunodeficiencies characteristic of CLL, enhancing the antigen-presenting function of CLL cells and T cells simultaneously could be  a distinct advantage in the effort to elicit antitumor immune responses."
614	"There have been great strides in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Fludarabine is the most widely studied of the purine analogs that have significantly impacted the treatment of this disease. Pentostatin has also been shown to have clinical activity in CLL and appears to be less toxic than its fludarabine counterpart, which may offer some important advantages. This text will review the rationale and more recent clinical trial results for pentostatin-based combinations in both the upfront and relapsed treatment setting for patients with CLL. Attention to the frequency of response, ability to achieve minimal residual disease, and toxicity from these approaches will be emphasized.  Where feasible, we will also compare the impact of pentostatin-based treatments to fludarabine-based combinations in CLL. In addition, this review will update the latest relevant work presented at the recent 2008 American Society of Hematology meeting and future directions in regard to the continued study of pentostatin-based combinations will be discussed."
615	"PURPOSE: GS-9219 is a cell-permeable prodrug of the acyclic nucleotide analogue 9-(2-phosphonylmethoxyethyl)guanine (PMEG); the incorporation of the active metabolite PMEG diphosphate (PMEGpp) into DNA results in DNA chain termination due to the lack of a 3'-hydroxyl moiety. We hypothesized that the incorporation of PMEGpp into DNA during repair resynthesis would result in the inhibition of DNA repair and the accumulation of DNA breaks in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells that would activate signaling pathways to cell death. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To test this hypothesis, CLL cells were irradiated with UV light to stimulate nucleotide excision repair pathways, enabling the incorporation of PMEGpp into DNA. The combination effects of GS-9219 and DNA-damaging agents and the signaling mechanisms activated in response to DNA repair inhibition by GS-9219, as well as changes in CLL cell viability, were investigated. RESULTS: PMEGpp was incorporated into DNA in CLL cells when nucleotide excision repair was activated by UV. Following PMEGpp incorporation, DNA repair was inhibited, which led to the accumulation of DNA strand breaks. The presence of DNA strand breaks activated the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-like protein kinase family members ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and DNA-dependent protein kinase. P53 was phosphorylated and stabilized in response to the inhibition of DNA repair. P53 targeted proteins, Puma and Bax, were up-regulated and activated. The combination of GS-9219 and DNA-damaging agents resulted in more cell death than the sum of the single agents alone. CONCLUSION: GS-9219 inhibits DNA repair in CLL cells, an action that stimulates signaling pathways for apoptosis induction."
616	"CD49d plays a critical role in leucocyte trafficking, activation and survival, and facilitates interactions between leucocytes and stromal cells. Recent data give evidence for the prognostic relevance of CD49d protein expression in B-CLL.  In our study we analyzed both the expression of CD49d protein and mRNA in a cohort of 101 CLL patients. The percentage of leukemic B-cells expressing CD49d determined by flow cytometry ranged from 0 to 100%. 37 patients with high CD49d protein expression >or=45% (according to ROC analysis) had a significantly shorter treatment-free survival (TFS) and overall survival (OS) than 64 patients  with low CD49d expression (median TFS: 116 versus 43 months, p=0.015; median OS:  not reached in both groups, p=0.018). CD49d protein expression was strongly associated with CD38 status (p=0.0001) and ZAP-70 status (p=0.03) but not with IGVH mutation. In multivariate analysis high CD49d expression was a significantly independent prognostic factor (HR 3.0; p=0.005). According to the strong correlation of CD49d protein expression with CD49d mRNA expression (r=0.39; p<0.0001) we could confirm the results on mRNA level with worse prognosis for patients with high mRNA level. Collectively, our data confirm the prognostic significance supporting the idea to use CD49d as target molecules for therapeutic approaches in B-CLL."
617	"By analyzing the cDNA obtained from 16 B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patient samples, we found that Nutlin-3, a small molecule inhibitor of MDM2/p53 interaction, induced a characteristic gene expression profile (GEP) signature in 13 out of 16 B-CLL samples. The lack of Nutlin-3-induced GEP signature in 3 out of 16 B-CLL samples was not due to p53 deletion and/or mutation, as demonstrated by FISH analysis and p53 sequencing. Of note, the 3 B-CLL samples in which Nutlin-3 did not elicit the GEP signature were also less susceptible to Nutlin-3-mediated cytotoxicity with respect to the remaining 13 B-CLL samples. However, the partial lack of response in these p53 wild-type B-CLL samples was not due to defects in the ability of Nutlin-3 to promote p53 induction, as confirmed by the rapid accumulation of p53 protein at Western blot  analysis in response to Nutlin-3 in all samples examined. Upon exposure to Nutlin-3, the genes up-regulated with the highest score in the majority of B-CLL  cells were all known p53-target genes, including genes involved in apoptotic pathways, such as FAS and BAX, as well as MDM2. Taken together, our data indicate that the ability of Nutlin-3 to induce a characteristic GEP signature correlates  with its cytotoxic potential in p53 wild-type B-CLL cells. However, in some p53 wild-type B-CLL samples, the response to Nutlin-3 cannot be predicted on the basis of FISH analysis or p53 sequencing."
618	"Glycart Biotechnology AG, Genentech Inc, F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Biogen Idec Inc and Chugai Pharmaceutical Co Ltd are developing GA-101, a third-generation, humanized and glyco-engineered anti-CD20 IgG1 mAb, for the potential treatment of B-cell malignancies. Compared with classic type I CD20 antibodies (eg, rituximab), GA-101 binds with high affinity to the CD20 type II epitope, resulting in the induction of antibody-dependent cytotoxicity that is 5- to 100-fold greater than observed upon treatment with rituximab. GA-101 also exhibits superior direct cell killing properties than rituximab. In preclinical studies, GA-101 was significantly more potent and effective in depleting B-cells  than rituximab, and induced dose-dependent antitumor activity, complete tumor regression and improved long-term survival in xenograft mouse models of B-cell malignancy. In a phase I/II clinical trial, GA-101 had a similar safety profile to rituximab, and exhibited promising efficacy in patients with relapsed/refractory CD20-positive lymphoid malignancies. At the time of publication, phase I/II trials for GA-101 were ongoing in B-cell malignancies. Based on preclinical and preliminary clinical data, GA-101 appears to be a promising therapeutic agent for CD20-positive B-cell lymphoid malignances, including non-Hodgkin lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
619	"Molecular cytogenetic lesions play a major role in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and represent important prognostic markers. Besides FISH, conventional banding analysis using effective mitogens is important for an  accurate assessment of the cytogenetic profile of CLL. The most frequent aberrations are represented by 13q-, 11q-, +12, 6q- and 14q32/IGH translocations  and 17p-. Chromosome translocations and complex karyotype may occur in up to 30 and 16% of the cases, respectively. The frequency of 17p- and 11q- is higher in patients requiring treatment and in relapsed/refractory patients, reflecting the  association of these rearrangements with unfavorable prognosis. Mutations of the  TP53 gene may also confer an inferior outcome, as is the case with 14q32 translocations and unbalanced translocations. Evidence was provided that distinct treatment approaches may be effective in specific cytogenetic entities of CLL, making molecular cytogenetic investigations a necessary tool for a modern diagnostic work-up in CLL."
623	"Allergy/atopy has been suggested to protect against non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and specific IgE levels are decreased in patients with NHL. We speculated that all immunoglobulin subclass levels might be downregulated in NHL and examined levels of IgM, IgD, IgA, IgE, IgG and IgG(4) in 200 NHL patients and 200 age- and sex-matched controls. Patients with B-cell NHL of many types had consistently lower median immunoglobulin subclass levels than controls. In every subclass except IgD, about 10-15% of B-cell NHL patients had absolute levels below the 2.5 percentile of controls. Subclass levels correlated with each other and many patients had more than one significantly low level. Levels were lowest for IgG(4) and IgE. Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma had especially low total IgE levels. In other B-cell NHL types, total IgE levels  were decreased to a similar extent as other immunoglobulin subclasses. In conclusion, low IgE levels are only part of a more generalized loss of immunoglobulins of all subtypes in a wide variety of B-cell NHL types. Low immunoglobulin levels appear to be a consequence of B-cell NHL presence, and we speculate about molecular mechanisms that could reduce all immunoglobulin subclasses in B-cell NHL."
624	"Malignant monoclonal B cells of chronic B cell lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) usually fail to be cleared, which indicates important costimulatory molecules may be lacking. Among those costimulatory signals, B7-1/CD80 and B7-2/CD86 caused utmost attention. In this study, B7-1 and B7-2 expression on B cells in chronic B cell lymphocytic leukemia patients were detected. Data showed that B7-2 expression in chronic B cell lymphocytic leukemia patients is significantly lower than in normal people, which suggests defective B7-2 expression may be one of the pathogenic mechanisms of chronic B cell lymphocytic leukemia. Further, we confirmed interferon-gamma could induce B7-2 expression slightly and promote T-cell response against chronic B cell lymphocytic leukemia cells, indicating interferon-gamma has clinical value in chronic leukemia immunotherapy based on modulating B7-2 expression."
625	"In the last few years, it has been suggested that the involvement of human leukocyte antigen-G (HLA-G) in several tumoral processes and its likely participation as a factor of immune tolerance in malignant cells. Recently, positive HLA-G surface expression has been associated with a poor prognosis in a  small group of patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), a lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by a heterogeneous clinical course. In the present work, 169 patients suffering from B-CLL were analyzed for the expression of HLA-G by flow cytometry in order to verify its prognostic value in  a larger cohort. We observed a low expression of this molecule on leukemic B cells and no significant relation to clinical data or progression-free survival time, indicating that this molecule is not as good immunologic prognostic marker  for B-CLL as suggested."
626	"Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) is a disease of thickened, hard, hyperpigmented skin lesions with or without systemic fibrosis occurring in patients with renal insufficiency and associated with the administration of gadolinium-containing contrast. The pathogenesis of this disease is unclear, and  there is no definitive treatment. We describe a 71-yr-old patient with stable chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and NSF who presented with hypercalcemia in 2006. Before onset of renal insufficiency in 2002, serum calcium, phosphorus, and PTH levels were normal. In 2004, the patient began hemodialysis, and he was diagnosed with NSF in 2005, shortly after undergoing an MRI with gadolinium contrast administration. Over the next 6 mo, albumin-corrected serum total calcium levels rose from 9.9 to 13.1 mg/dl (normal  range, 8.5-10.5 mg/dl) with normal serum phosphorus levels. On admission in September 2006, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)(2)D] levels were elevated at 130.7 pg/ml (normal range, 25.1-66.1 pg/ml). Biopsy of an NSF lesion showed increased 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3)-1-alpha hydroxylase (CYP27B1) immunostaining compared with the biopsy from a normal control. This is the first reported association of NSF with hypercalcemia caused by elevated 1,25(OH)(2)D levels. This metabolic disturbance should be sought in future cases to determine a connection between NSF, 1,25(OH)(2)D metabolism, and CYP27B1 activation in the skin, which may shed light on the pathogenesis of this unusual local and systemic fibrosing disorder."
627	"The Emu-TCL1 transgenic mouse spontaneously develops a CD5(+) B cell lymphoproliferative disorder similar to human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Given the ineffectual T cell antitumor responses in this mouse model of CLL, we sought to determine whether combined treatment with anti-CD40 mAb (alphaCD40) and CpG-containing oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG) could exert immunotherapeutic effects. We have previously shown that macrophages activated by sequential ligation of CD40 and TLR9 could become cytotoxic against solid tumor cell lines both in vitro and in vivo. In the current study, we find that alphaCD40 plus CpG-activated macrophages induce tumor B cell apoptosis in vitro and that alphaCD40 plus CpG treatment markedly retards tumor growth in immunodeficient SCID/Beige mice following transplantation of primary tumor B cells. Our results suggest a novel immunotherapeutic strategy for CLL that may be effective even in the face of tumor or chemotherapy-induced T cell immunodeficiency."
630	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a number of T-cell abnormalities, which may play a causative role in disease progression and immune  dysfunction. Recently, expression levels of CD38 in T cells have been suggested as a novel adverse prognostic factor in male CLL patients. In the current study,  CD38 expression on CLL T cells was examined by flow cytometry in 126 patients with B-CLL and correlated with clinical parameters and established molecular risk factors. In line with previous results we observed a positive correlation of CD38 expression on leukemic B and non-leukemic T cells with clinical stage. CD38 expression on B-CLL cells, cytogenetic aberrations and mutations of IgVH genes were found to significantly influence treatment-free survival. By contrast, CD38  expression on T cells was not significantly associated with an adverse clinical outcome."
631	"Essential thrombocythemia (ET) co-existing with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is extremely rare. We report two cases of ET with Jak 2 V617F in Zap-70+ CLL. ET is a myeloproliferative stem cell disease. Zap-70 expression in CLL correlates with non-mutated immunoglobulin genes. The occurrence of a less mature CLL in patients with a pluripotential stem cell disease raises the possibility that an initial "trigger hit" occurred in a pre-Jak 2 common early progenitor in  these patients. Subsequent additional molecular events accumulated independently  following myeloid and lymphoid differentiation, leading to the development of two diseases of likely identical origin but different lineages."
632	"Telomere length (TL) has been associated with outcome in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The aim of this extensive analysis carried out on 401 CLL patients was to assess TL conclusively as a prognostic biomarker. Our study included two cohorts used as learning (191 patients) and blinded validation series (210 patients). A TL cutoff of 5000 bp was chosen by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and Youden's index in the learning series. In this  series, TL< or =5000 bp was independently associated to a worse outcome for both  overall survival (OS; 105.5 vs 281 months, P<0.001) and treatment-free survival (TFS; 24.6 vs 73 months, P<0.001). In the blinded validation series, TL< or =5000 bp was confirmed as an independent outcome predictor for OS (79.8 vs not reached, P<0.001) and TFS (15.2 vs 130.8 months, P<0.001). Moreover, TL< or =5000 bp independently predicted the risk of Richter's syndrome (5-year risk: 18.9 vs 6.4%, P=0.016). Within CLL subsets defined by biological predictors, TL consistently identified patient subgroups harboring unfavorable prognosis. These  results demonstrate that TL is a powerful independent predictor of multiple outcomes in CLL, and contributes to refine the prognostic assessment of this disease when utilized in combination with other prognostic markers. We thus believe that this prognostic biomarker has the potential for a more widespread use in CLL."
635	"Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma involving the bone marrow can be difficult to diagnose, and pathological features that predict the presence of associated Waldenström's macroglobulinemia have yet to be identified. To address these issues, marrow histology, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry were studied from 35 lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma cases that had comprehensive clinical assessment for Waldenström's macroglobulinemia. In all cases, the plasma cells were analyzed by a novel 6-color flow method. Both immunohistochemistry and flow  cytometry were useful in identifying the lymphoid and plasmacytic disease components. In 19 cases, immunohistochemistry revealed an earlier unrecognized pattern of plasma cell infiltration in which they were physically separate from the lymphoid infiltrates. B-cell flow cytometry revealed monotypic cells in 96% of the cases. Approximately half of these were CD5 and/or CD23 positive, although none had features of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and none of the B cells had flow cytometric features suggesting plasmacytic differentiation. In contrast, highly sensitive 6-color plasma cell flow cytometry revealed monotypic cells in 32 of the 35 cases; in 20 cases, the pattern of CD38 and CD138 coexpression detected was identical to that seen in plasma cell malignancies such as multiple  myeloma. In 18 of these 20 lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma cases, these plasma cells were CD19 positive, distinguishing them from those of true plasma cell neoplasms, which are CD19 negative. It is interesting that the two lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma cases with CD19-negative plasma cells had an IgG isotype serum paraprotein. Apart from this, no other pathological correlates of the clinical or laboratory features of symptomatic Waldenström's macroglobulinemia were identified."
637	"Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to date remains the only imaging modality allowing direct visualization of the bone marrow compartment, in general having high sensitivity for bone marrow abnormalities. However, signal intensity changes in many different diseases presented with diffuse bone marrow infiltration show more overlap than difference, resulting in poor specificity. Therefore, MRI cannot be applied for initial diagnostic purposes in most diseases but should be  reserved for staging, monitoring of therapy, and detection of disease recurrence  after treatment. Diffuse infiltrative disease occurring at the hematopoietically  active bone marrow, the vertebrae, pelvis, and femora should be areas included in imaging studies at a minimum if whole-body imaging cannot be applied. In this article, in-depth information is provided on selected topics, including Gaucher's disease, Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and changes in bone marrow after different medication strategies, with  overviews of the field provided by multiple recent papers in the literature."
640	"The molecular mechanism of autocrine regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells is unknown. Here, we  report that CLL B cells express constitutive levels of HIF-1alpha under normoxia. We have examined the status of the von Hippel-Lindau gene product (pVHL) that is  responsible for HIF-1alpha degradation and found it to be at a notably low level  in CLL B cells compared with normal B cells. We demonstrate that the microRNA, miR-92-1, overexpressed in CLL B cells, can target the VHL transcript to repress  its expression. We found that the stabilized HIF-1alpha can form an active complex with the transcriptional coactivator p300 and phosphorylated-STAT3 at the VEGF promoter and recruit RNA polymerase II. This is initial evidence that pVHL,  without any genetic alteration, can be regulated by microRNA and explains the aberrant autocrine VEGF secretion in CLL."
641	"Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) are among the most frequently activated signaling pathways in cancer. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), signals from the microenvironment are critical for expansion of the malignant B cells, and cause constitutive activation of PI3Ks. CXCR4 is a key receptor for CLL cell migration and adhesion to marrow stromal cells (MSCs). Because of the importance  of CXCR4 and PI3Ks for CLL-microenvironment cross-talk, we investigated the activity of novel, isoform-selective PI3K inhibitors that target different isoforms of the p110-kDa subunit. Inhibition with p110alpha inhibitors (PIK-90 and PI-103) resulted in a significant reduction of chemotaxis and actin polymerization to CXCL12 and reduced migration beneath MSC (pseudoemperipolesis). Western blot and reverse phase protein array analyses consistently demonstrated that PIK-90 and PI-103 inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and S6, whereas p110delta or p110beta/p110delta inhibitors were less effective. In suspension and MSC cocultures, PI-103 and PIK-90 were potent inducers of CLL cell apoptosis. Moreover, these p110alpha inhibitors enhanced the cytotoxicity of fludarabine and reversed the protective effect of MSC on fludarabine-induced apoptosis. Collectively, our data demonstrate that p110alpha inhibitors antagonize stromal cell-derived migration, survival, and drug-resistance signals and therefore provide a rational to explore the therapeutic activity of these promising agents  in CLL."
644	"Elevated B-cell-activating factor (BAFF; TNFSF13B) levels have been found in patients with B-cell malignancies and autoimmune diseases, suggesting that it may play a pathogenic role. We previously found that a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the TNFSF13B promoter resulted in increased transcription, suggesting that genetic variation in TNFSF13B may influence its expression. We therefore wanted to determine if genetic variation in TNFSF13B is associated with high BAFF levels and non-Hogkin lymphoma (NHL) risk. We genotyped 9 tagSNPs within TNFSF13B in a clinic-based study of 441 NHL cases and 475 matched controls and evaluated the association of individual SNPs with risk of NHL; 3 tagSNPs were significant (P < 0.05). When categorized into low-, moderate-, and high-risk groups based on  risk alleles, we found the permutation-corrected odds ratio for the trend to be 1.43 (P = 0.0019) for risk of B-cell NHL, 1.69 (P = 0.0093) for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, 1.43 (P = 0.029) for follicular lymphoma, and 1.06 (P = 0.21) for chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. The mean serum BAFF  level in those who carried the low-risk alleles was 2 ng/mL compared with 4.3 ng/mL in those with the high-risk alleles (P = 0.02). Taken together, our data suggest that genetic variation in the TNFSF13B gene is significantly associated with NHL risk and elevated serum BAFF levels."
645	"PURPOSE: Critical to the success of active immunotherapy against cancer is the identification of immunologically recognized cancer-specific proteins with low tolerogenic potential. Cancer testis antigens (CTA), in particular, fulfill this  requirement as a result of their aberrant expression restricted to cancer cells and lack of expression in normal tissues bypassing tolerogenic mechanisms against self. Although CTAs have been extensively studied in solid malignancies, little is known regarding their expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using a two-pronged approach we evaluated the immunogenicity of 29 CTAs in 22 patients with CLL and correlated these results to reverse transcriptase PCR data from CLL cell lines and patient cells. RESULTS: We identified IgG-specific antibodies for one antigen, NXF2, and confirmed this response by ELISA and Western blot. We found that treatment of CLL with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine can induce expression of NXF2 that lasted for several weeks after treatment. Treatment also increased levels of MHC and costimulatory molecules (CD80, CD86, and CD40) necessary for antigen presentation. In addition, we identified other promising antigens that may have potential immunotherapeutic  application. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that NXF2 could be further pursued as an immunotherapeutic target in CLL, and that treatment with demethylating agents could be exploited to specifically modulate CTA expression and effective antigen  presentation in malignant B cells."
646	"In human blood, 1% to 5% of lymphocytes are gammadelta T cells; they mostly express the gammadelta T-cell receptor (TCR)Vgamma9, recognize nonpeptide phosphoantigens (PAgs) produced by microbes and tumor cells, and mediate different modes of lytic activities directed against tumor target cells. Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) mediated by cytolytic lymphoid cells is essential for the clinical activity of anticancer monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), but whether PAgs affect ADCC by gammadelta T cells is unknown. Here we report that, in association with the CD20(+)-specific mAb rituximab (RTX), the synthetic PAg bromohydrin pyrophosphate (BrHPP) increased TCRVgamma9(+) cell binding to CD20(+) lymphoma cells in vitro. This combination activated phospho-ZAP70 and phospho-ERK1/2 signaling in TCRVgamma9(+) cells and strongly enhanced their ADCC activity. We obtained similar results with BrHPP in  the context of the mAbs alemtuzumab and trastuzumab. Furthermore, BrHPP enhanced  RTX-mediated depletion of CD20(+) cells in vitro from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of healthy subjects and enhanced ADCC by gammadelta T cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In cynomolgus macaques, a regimen combining RTX, BrHPP, and IL2 activated TCRVgamma9(+) lymphocytes and enhanced B-cell depletion from blood and lymph nodes. Thus, the combination with  BrHPP PAg is able to improve the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy by therapeutic  mAbs."
647	"Inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks) have been reported to have activities in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells by inhibiting Cdk7 and Cdk9, which control transcription. Here we studied the novel Cdk inhibitor SNS-032, which exhibits potent and selective inhibitory activity against Cdk2, Cdk7, and Cdk9. We hypothesized that transient inhibition of transcription by SNS-032 would decrease antiapoptotic proteins, resulting in cell death. SNS-032 effectively killed chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in vitro regardless of prognostic indicators and treatment history. This was associated with inhibition of phosphorylation of RNA polymerase II and inhibition of RNA synthesis. Consistent  with the intrinsic turnover rates of their transcripts and proteins, antiapoptotic proteins, such as Mcl-1 and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), were rapidly reduced on exposure to SNS-032, whereas Bcl-2 protein was not affected. The initial decrease of Mcl-1 protein was the result of transcriptional inhibition rather than cleavage by caspase. Compared with flavopiridol and roscovitine, SNS-032 was more potent, both in inhibition of RNA  synthesis and at induction of apoptosis. SNS-032 activity was readily reversible; removal of SNS-032 reactivated RNA polymerase II, which led to resynthesis of Mcl-1 and cell survival. Thus, these data support the clinical development of SNS-032 in diseases that require short-lived oncoproteins for survival."
648	"Mature B-cell differentiation provides an important mechanism for the acquisition of adaptive immunity. Malignancies derived from mature B cells constitute the majority of leukemias and lymphomas. These malignancies often maintain the characteristics of the normal B cells that they are derived from, a feature that  is frequently used in their diagnosis. The role of microRNAs in mature B cells is largely unknown. Through concomitant microRNA and mRNA profiling, we demonstrate  a potential regulatory role for microRNAs at every stage of the mature B-cell differentiation process. In addition, we have experimentally identified a direct  role for the microRNA regulation of key transcription factors in B-cell differentiation: LMO2 and PRDM1 (Blimp1). We also profiled the microRNA of B-cell tumors derived from diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, and chronic  lymphocytic leukemia. We found that, in contrast to many other malignancies, common B-cell malignancies do not down-regulate microRNA expression. Although these tumors could be distinguished from each other with use of microRNA expression, each tumor type maintained the expression of the lineage-specific microRNAs. Expression of these lineage-specific microRNAs could correctly predict the lineage of B-cell malignancies in more than 95% of the cases. Thus, our data  demonstrate that microRNAs may be important in maintaining the mature B-cell phenotype in normal and malignant B cells."
649	"Therapeutic options for advanced B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are limited. Available treatments can also deplete T lymphocytes, leaving patients at risk of life-threatening infections. In the National Cancer Institute cell line screen, the structurally unique natural product silvestrol produces an unusual pattern of cytotoxicity that suggests activity in leukemia and selectivity for B cells. We investigated silvestrol efficacy using primary human B-leukemia cells, established B-leukemia  cell lines, and animal models. In CLL cells, silvestrol LC(50) (concentration lethal to 50%) is 6.9 nM at 72 hours. At this concentration, there is no difference in sensitivity of cells from patients with or without the del(17p13.1) abnormality. In isolated cells and whole blood, silvestrol is more cytotoxic toward B cells than T cells. Silvestrol causes early reduction in Mcl-1 expression due to translational inhibition with subsequent mitochondrial damage,  as evidenced by reactive oxygen species generation and membrane depolarization. In vivo, silvestrol causes significant B-cell reduction in Emu-Tcl-1 transgenic mice and significantly extends survival of 697 xenograft severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice without discernible toxicity. These data indicate silvestrol has efficacy against B cells in vitro and in vivo and identify translational inhibition as a potential therapeutic target in B-cell leukemias."
650	"The t(2;14)(p16;q32) has been reported previously in only 12 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL). The clinicopathologic  features have been incompletely described. We describe 6 new cases of CLL/SLL with t(2;14)(p16;q32). All had marrow involvement, 4 had absolute lymphocytosis,  4 had lymphadenopathy, and 3 had hepatosplenomegaly. All showed atypical lymphocyte morphologic features with plasmacytoid differentiation and irregular nuclei; 3 had increased prolymphocytes. Flow cytometry demonstrated typical immunophenotypes in 5 and an atypical immunophenotype in 1. All expressed ZAP70;  5 assessed showed unmutated IgV(H) genes. Karyotyping identified t(2;14)(p16;q32) as the sole abnormality in 1, primary abnormality in 2, and part of a complex karyotype in 3. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis revealed BCL11A/IgH rearrangement in all. After chemotherapy, 3 patients died of disease and 3 were alive with disease (median follow-up, 80 months). We conclude that CLL/SLL with t(2;14) (p16;q32) and BCL11A/IgH rearrangement is characterized by atypical morphologic features and unmutated IgV(H) genes."
653	"Ab with DNA-hydrolyzing properties were described in autoimmune pathologies, such as SLE and RA, and in other autoimmune diseases, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia, AIDS, and others. The disease-associated DNA-binding AAb penetrate cell membrane and enter the nucleus. Intracellular entry of anti-DNA was linked to cellular damage and apo. Here we discuss the possible pathological process induced by DNA-cleaving Ab in the nucleus, where these Ab may induce apo. Apo processes, e.g., induced by DNA-hydrolyzing Ab, may underlie a number of syndromes observed in autoimmunity thus providing the grounds for the pathological role of DNA-hydrolyzing Ab in these diseases."
655	"CD38 and CD49d are associated negative prognosticators in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Despite evidence that both molecules are involved in interactions occurring between CLL and normal cells in the context of CLL-involved tissues, a  functional link is still missing. Using gene expression profiles comparing CD38(+)CD49d(+) versus CD38(-)CD49d(-) CLL cells, we showed overexpression of the CCL3 and CCL4 chemokines in cells from the former group. These chemokines were also up-regulated by CD38 signals in CLL; moreover, CCL3 was expressed by CLL cells from bone marrow biopsies (BMB) of CD38(+)CD49d(+) but not CD38(-)CD49d(-)  cases. High levels of CCR1 and, to a lesser extent, CCR5, the receptors for CCL3  and CCL4, were found in CLL-derived monocyte-macrophages. Consistently, CCL3 increased monocyte migration, and CD68(+) macrophage infiltration was particularly high in BMB from CD38(+)CD49d(+) CLL. Conditioned media from CCL3-stimulated macrophages induced endothelial cells to express vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), the CD49d ligand, likely through tumor necrosis factor alpha overproduction. These effects were apparent in BMB from CD38(+)CD49d(+) CLL, where lymphoid infiltrates were characterized by a prominent meshwork of VCAM-1(+) stromal/endothelial cells. Lastly, CD49d engagement by VCAM-1 transfectants increased viability of CD38(+)CD49d(+) CLL cells. Altogether, CD38 and CD49d can be thought of as parts of a consecutive chain of events ultimately leading to improved survival of CLL cells."
656	"Prosthetic joint infections due to Cryptococcus neoformans have not been described before. We report a case of a prosthetic hip joint infection due to C.  neoformans. An 84-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with progressive left groin pain and fever. There was radiographic evidence of prosthesis loosening, and an aspirate of the left hip joint grew C. neoformans. The patient was treated with amphotericin B with good initial symptomatic response. The patient elected not to undergo revision arthroplasty, and oral suppressive therapy with fluconazole was initiated. After 10 months of fluconazole therapy, the prosthesis was removed secondary to pain and increased instability of the implant. Despite excellent penetration of fluconazole into the joint fluid and reports of successful outcome in patients with native joint cryptococcal infections as well as prosthetic joint infections due to Candida spp., suppressive fluconazole therapy failed. The failure may have been due to an unfavorable interaction between the organism and immune mechanism as well as reduced activity of fluconazole in biofilm."
657	"Our understanding of the genetic basis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is only just starting to be recognized. This perspective article by Drs. Crowther-Swanepoel and Houlston provides an up-to-date review the molecular epidemiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, with emphasis on the integration of biology and genomics."
658	"BACKGROUND: The graft-versus-leukemia effect is able to induce clinical responses in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with a reduced intensity conditioning regimen, followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation. We investigated whether molecular remissions could be attained after reduced intensity conditioning and allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with  relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia and whether the assessment of minimal residual disease might be used to predict the clinical outcome. DESIGN AND METHODS: Minimal residual disease was monitored by polymerase chain reaction using the immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene rearrangement as a molecular marker in 29 relapsed patients who achieved complete remission following reduced  intensity conditioning and allogeneic stem cell transplantation. A nested-polymerase chain reaction with patient-specific primers derived from complementarity determining regions (CDR2 and CDR3) was carried out in all the patients. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed in patients whose nested reaction gave positive or mixed results. RESULTS: Three patterns of minimal residual disease were observed: negative (31%), mixed (24%), and always positive (45%). The cumulative incidence of relapse according to the minimal residual disease status at 6 and 12 months after transplantation was significantly different between polymerase chain reaction-negative and -positive patients (p=0.031 and p=0.04, respectively). Two-year disease-free survival was 93% and 46% for polymerase chain reaction-negative and -positive patients at 6 months after transplantation, respectively (p=0.012). Similarly, 2-year disease-free survival was 100% and 57%  for polymerase chain reaction-negative and -positive patients at 12 months, respectively (p=0.037). No clinical or biological factors were predictive of the  achievement of polymerase chain reaction negativity after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Graft-versus-host disease was more frequent in patients who did  not relapse (p=0.04). Quantitative monitoring of minimal residual disease was able to identify polymerase chain reaction-positive patients with a higher risk of relapse. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that relapsed patients can achieve molecular remission after reduced intensity conditioning and allogeneic stem cell transplantation and suggest a minimal residual disease-driven intervention that might be useful to prevent overt hematologic relapse."
660	"To investigate the association between hepatitis C virus (HCV) and B cell proliferation, we searched for the clonal B cells by flow cytometric analysis of  the surface immunoglobulin kappa (kappa):lambda (lambda) light chain ratios of the circulating B (CD19+) cells in 240 HCV-positive patients and 150 negative controls with liver diseases. Clonal B cells with light chain restriction (kappa:lambda ratio >3:1 or <1:2) were analyzed for CD5 expression and the presence of monoclonal immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IGH) gene rearrangements and the t(14;18) chromosomal translocation. Clonal B cells were detected in 7 cases with HCV (2.9%), but was never detected in the controls (p < 0.05). Of the 7 cases, all had monoclonal IGH gene rearrangements and one had the t(14;18) chromosomal translocation. These HCV-related clonal B cells are not uniform in the intensity of CD5 expression and showed no increase in the frequencies of CD5+ population compared with non-clonal B cells. No "chronic lymphocytic leukemia-phenotype" cells were found. The loss of clonality was observed in 2 cases treated with interferon and in one case treated with splenectomy. The longitudinal study is required to determine whether these circulating clonal B cells progress to lymphoproliferative disorders in future or not."
661	"BACKGROUND: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a low-grade lymphoproliferative disorder with characteristic histomorphologic features and an identifiable immunophenotype. The skin can be involved in the context of known disease, but cutaneous signs are rarely the presenting findings. OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of unusual clinical cutaneous presentations of B-CLL. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective case series analysis of 3 patients with unusual cutaneous clinicopathologic presentations of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, including erythematous plaques, angiomatosis/telangiectasia, and erosive skin changes, respectively, without a previous clinical history of chronic lymphocytic lymphoma. Main outcome measures were clinical cutaneous presentations and histopathologic results in the diagnosis of underlying disease. RESULTS: In the 3 cases, lesion locations were the lower cheek, lower extremity,  and penis (groin region). Histomorphologic testing showed mild to dense perivascular and periadnexal lymphoid aggregates throughout the dermis and extending into the panniculus, consistent with B-CLL. The diagnosis was confirmed with immunohistochemical studies that showed coexpression of CD5 and CD20 in the  neoplastic lymphocytic infiltrate. LIMITATIONS: None. CONCLUSION: Cutaneous manifestations are an uncommon presentation of subclinical  B-CLL. Cutaneous changes were the presenting features of underlying lymphoma in all 3 cases, highlighting the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for a lymphoproliferative process in cases with unusual or atypical clinicopathologic features. Additional investigations into the behavior of B-CLL  in the skin may elucidate further the evolution of cutaneous lesions in this disease."
662	"Phosphodiesterase (PDE)4 inhibitors, which activate cAMP signaling by reducing cAMP catabolism, are known to induce apoptosis in B lineage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells but not normal human T cells. The explanation for such differential sensitivity remains unknown. In this study, we report studies contrasting the response to PDE4 inhibitor treatment in CLL cells and normal human T and B cells. Affymetrix gene chip analysis in the three cell populations  following treatment with the PDE4 inhibitor rolipram identified a set of up-regulated transcripts with unusually high fold changes in the CLL samples, several of which are likely part of compensatory negative feedback loops. The high fold changes were due to low basal transcript levels in CLL cells, suggesting that cAMP-mediated signaling may be unusually tightly regulated in this cell type. Rolipram treatment augmented cAMP levels and induced ATF-1/CREB serine 63/133 phosphorylation in both B lineage cell types but not T cells. As treatment with the broad-spectrum PDE inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine induced T cell CREB phosphorylation, we tested a series of family-specific PDE inhibitors for their ability to mimic 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine-induced ATF-1/CREB phosphorylation. Whereas PDE3 inhibitors alone had no effect, the combination of PDE3 and PDE4 inhibitors induced ATF-1/CREB serine 63/133 phosphorylation in T cells. Consistent with this observation, PDE3B transcript and protein levels were low in CLL cells but easily detectable in T cells. Combined PDE3/4 inhibition did not induce T cell apoptosis, suggesting that cAMP-mediated signal transduction that leads to robust ATF-1/CREB serine 63/133 phosphorylation is not sufficient to induce apoptosis in this lymphoid lineage."
663	"Lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma was found in an 8-year-old Holstein cow uninfected with bovine leukemia virus (BLV). The neoplastic tissue was composed of lymphoid  and plasmacytoid cells, and intracytoplasmic IgM (lambda) was detected in the latter. The diagnosis was based on the presence of small lymphoid cells and the expression of CD5, which were suggestive of a close relationship with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Areas of immunoblastoid cells were reminiscent of histologic progression into immunoblastic lymphoma. The neoplastic cells at different stages of differentiation were distinct from those of BLV-associated pleomorphic lymphoma."
666	"BCL6 somatic mutations affect normal and tumoral post germinal center B-lymphocytes. Our objective was to analyse expression, mutations and polymorphisms in the BCL6 gene and to correlate those variables with the clinical outcome in early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CLL samples were used  for characterisation of the mutational status of BCL6/ immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IGHV) genes, and expression of BCL6 was determined by real time PCR  and immunoblot. Out of 68 cases, 29% show somatic mutations on BCL6 which occur exclusively in IGHV mutated cases. They are single nucleotide substitutions located mainly in two short mutational hot spots. CLL cells express different levels of BCL6 regardless of the mutational status, the number of mutations and polymorphisms. CLL cases expressing high levels of BCL6 have significantly shorter treatment-free interval. In conclusion, in early-stage patients with CLL, we found no correlation between expression and the mutations or polymorphism in BCL6, but high levels of BCL6 can discriminate patients with a worse prognosis."
669	"The role of intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) prophylaxis in hypogammaglobulinemic patients with lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD) and plasma cell dyscrasias (PCD) has not been established. We performed a systematic  review and meta-analysis of randomized-controlled trials comparing prophylaxis with polyvalent IVIG versus control. The primary outcomes were all-cause mortality and major infections. Nine trials, assessing patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM), were included. No survival  benefit could be demonstrated, RR 1.36 (95% CI 0.58-3.19, two trials), but there  was a significant decrease in the occurrence of major infections, RR 0.45 (95% CI 0.27-0.75, three trials) and a significant reduction in clinically documented infections, RR 0.49 (95% CI 0.39-0.61, three trials). Adverse events, usually not requiring discontinuation of IVIG, occurred significantly more with IVIG. On the  basis of the available data, IVIG cannot be recommended routinely for patients with CLL or MM with hypogammaglobulinemia and/or recurrent infections and should  be considered on individual basis."
671	"Rituximab has modest activity in relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma but is associated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) release that can cause CLL proliferation and inhibit apoptosis. We examined whether disruption of TNF-alpha by etanercept improves response to rituximab in CLL. Eligible patients had previously treated CLL with performance status 0-3. Patients received etanercept 25 mg subcutaneously twice weekly (weeks 1-5) and rituximab 375 mg/m(2) intravenously thrice weekly (weeks 2-5) using a phase I/II design. Primary end points were response and toxicity. The 36 enrolled patients had a median of two prior treatments; 50% were fludarabine refractory and 22% had del(17p13.1). Of the 34 response-evaluable patients, 10 (29%) responded, including 9 partial responses and 1 complete remission. Response was not affected by prior rituximab or fludarabine-refractory status, but no patients with del(17p13.1) responded. Median progression-free survival for responders was 9.0 months (range 1-43). Ten patients have had treatment-free intervals exceeding 12 months, including four who have remained untreated for 32, 43, 46 and 56 months. Adverse events were mild, including mild  infusion reactions, transient cytopenias and grade 3 infections in 14% of the patients. The combination of etanercept and thrice weekly rituximab produces durable remissions in non-del(17p13.1) CLL patients and is well tolerated."
673	"The chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) immunoglobulin repertoire is uniquely characterized by the presence of stereotyped B-cell receptors (BCRs). A major BCR stereotype in CLL is shared by immunoglobulin G-switched cases utilizing the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable 4-34 (IGHV4-34) gene. Increased titers of IGHV4-34 antibodies are detected in selective clinical conditions, including infection by B-cell lymphotropic viruses, particularly Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV). In this context, we sought evidence for persistent activation by EBV and CMV in CLL cases expressing the IGHV4-34 gene. The study group included 93 CLL cases with an intentional bias for the IGHV4-34 gene. On the basis of real-time PCR results for CMV/EBV DNA, cases were assigned to three  groups: (1) double-negative (59/93); (2) single-positive (CMV- or EBV-positive; 25/93); (3) double-positive (9/93). The double-negative group was characterized by heterogeneous IGHV gene repertoire. In contrast, a bias for the IGHV4-34 gene  was observed in the single-positive group (9/25 cases; 36%). Remarkably, all nine double-positive cases utilized the IGHV4-34 gene; seven of nine cases expressed the major BCR stereotype as described above. In conclusion, our findings indicate that the interactions of CLL progenitor cells expressing distinctive IGHV4-34 BCRs with viral antigens/superantigens might facilitate clonal expansion and, eventually, leukemic transformation. The exact type, timing and location of these interactions remain to be determined."
679	"The small molecule inhibitor of the MDM2/p53 interaction Nutlin-3 significantly up-regulated the steady-state mRNA and protein levels of Notch1 in TP53(wild-type) (OCI, SKW6.4) but not in TP53(deleted) (HL-60) or TP53(mutated) (BJAB) leukemic cell lines. A direct demonstration that NOTCH1 was a transcriptional target of p53 in leukemic cells was obtained in experiments carried out with siRNA for p53. Moreover, inhibition of Notch1 expression using Notch1-specific siRNA significantly increased cytotoxicity in TP53(wild-type) leukemic cells. Of note, Nutlin-3 up-regulated Notch1 expression also in primary  TP53(wild-type) B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells and the combined use of Nutlin-3 plus pharmacological gamma-secretase inhibitors of the Notch signaling showed a synergistic cytotoxicity in both TP53(wild-type) leukemic cell lines and primary B-CLL cells. A potential drawback of gamma-secretase inhibitors was their ability to enhance osteoclastic maturation of normal circulating preosteoclasts induced by RANKL + M-CSF. Notwithstanding, Nutlin-3 completely suppressed osteoclastogenesis irrespective of the presence of gamma-secretase inhibitors. Taken together, these data indicate that the p53-dependent up-regulation of Notch1 in response to Nutlin-3 represents an antiapoptotic feedback mechanism able to restrain the potential therapeutic efficacy of Nutlin-3 in hematologic malignancies. Therefore, therapeutic combinations of Nutlin-3 + gamma-secretase inhibitors might potentiate the cytotoxicity of Nutlin-3 in p53(wild-type) leukemic cells."
683	"Immunotoxins based on Pseudomonas exotoxin A (PE) are promising anticancer agents that combine a variable fragment (Fv) from an antibody to a tumor-associated antigen with a 38-kDa fragment of PE (PE38). The intoxication pathway of PE immunotoxins involves receptor-mediated internalization and trafficking through endosomes/lysosomes, during which the immunotoxin undergoes important proteolytic processing steps but must otherwise remain intact for eventual transport to the cytosol. We have investigated the proteolytic susceptibility of PE38 immunotoxins to lysosomal proteases and found that cleavage clusters within a limited segment  of PE38. We subsequently generated mutants containing deletions in this region using HA22, an anti-CD22 Fv-PE38 immunotoxin currently undergoing clinical trials for B-cell malignancies. One mutant, HA22-LR, lacks all identified cleavage sites, is resistant to lysosomal degradation, and retains excellent biologic activity. HA22-LR killed chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells more potently and uniformly than HA22, suggesting that lysosomal protease digestion may limit immunotoxin efficacy unless the susceptible domain is eliminated. Remarkably, mice tolerated doses of HA22-LR at least 10-fold higher than lethal doses of HA22, and these higher doses exhibited markedly enhanced antitumor activity. We conclude that HA22-LR advances the therapeutic efficacy of HA22 by using an approach that may be applicable to other PE-based immunotoxins."
685	"We describe the cases of two unrelated patients who exhibited multiple chromosomal abnormalities in donor cells after allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). The patients were diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, respectively, and both underwent nonmyeloablative conditioning with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by PBSCT from their HLA-matched opposite-sex siblings. Post-transplant bone marrow cytogenetics showed full engraftment, and the early post-transplant studies demonstrated only normal donor metaphases. Subsequent studies of both patients, however, revealed a population of metaphase cells with abnormal, but apparently balanced, donor karyotypes. Chromosome studies performed on peripheral blood cells collected from both donors after transplantation were normal. Both patients remained in clinical remission during follow-up of approximately 8 years in one case, and 6 years in the other case, despite the persistence of the abnormal clones. Chromosomal abnormalities in residual recipient cells after bone marrow or PBSCT are not unusual. In contrast, only rare reports of chromosome abnormalities in donor cells exist, all of which have been associated with post-bone marrow transplant myelodysplastic syndrome or acute leukemias. The present cases demonstrate the rare phenomenon of persistent clonal nonpathogenic  chromosome aberrations in cells of donor origin."
686	"PURPOSE: Constitutive nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Our purpose was to characterize the molecular mechanisms underlying for the selective IkappaB kinase inhibitor BMS-345541 in CLL cells together with the analysis of its combination with several antineoplasic drugs. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Primary cells from 34 CLL patients were incubated with different doses of BMS-345541. NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity was analyzed by ELISA-based kits and the characterization of the apoptotic pathway was done by flow cytometry, immunoblotting, quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, and immunofluorescence techniques. RESULTS: BMS-345541 selectively induced apoptosis in CLL cells in the low micromolar range irrespective of p53 status. Noteworthy, the high ZAP-70 group was significantly more sensitive to BMS-345541 than the low ZAP-70 group, in correlation with high levels of p65 phosphorylation and DNA-binding activity. Following NF-kappaB inhibition, BMS-345541 led to induction of the mitochondrial  apoptotic pathway and activation of both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent factors. Moreover, BMS-345541-induced apoptosis was accompanied by down-regulation of several antiapoptotic NF-kappaB-target genes, including both BCL2 family members and apoptotic endogenous inhibitors. In addition, we showed a strong synergism between BMS-345541 and conventional chemotherapeutics such as mitoxantrone and dexamethasone as well as with new promising drugs such as the BH3-mimetic GX15-070/Obatoclax or the anti-TRAIL-R1 monoclonal antibody mapatumumab. CONCLUSIONS: These data confirm that NF-kappaB is a relevant target in CLL and indicate that inhibitors of IkappaB kinase, alone or in combination, represent a  novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of CLL patients, especially for the  group with high ZAP-70."
687	"Preclinical animal models have largely ignored the immune-suppressive mechanisms  that are important in human cancers. The identification and use of such models should allow better predictions of successful human responses to immunotherapy. As a model for changes induced in nonmalignant cells by cancer, we examined T-cell function in the chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) Emu-TCL1 transgenic mouse model. With development of leukemia, Emu-TCL1 transgenic mice developed functional T-cell defects and alteration of gene and protein expression closely resembling changes seen in CLL human patients. Furthermore, infusion of CLL cells into young Emu-TCL1 mice induced defects comparable to those seen in mice with developed leukemia, demonstrating a causal relationship between leukemia and the  T-cell defects. Altered pathways involved genes regulating actin remodeling, and  T cells exhibited dysfunctional immunological synapse formation and T-cell signaling, which was reversed by the immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide. These results further demonstrate the utility of this animal model of CLL and define a  versatile model to investigate both the molecular mechanisms of cancer-induced immune suppression and immunotherapeutic repair strategies."
691	"Although immunoglobulin V(H) mutation status (IgV(H) MS) is prognostic in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who are treated with alkylating  agents or single-agent fludarabine, its significance in the era of chemoimmunotherapy is not known. We determined the IgV(H) somatic mutation status (MS) in 177 patients enrolled in a phase 2 study of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR) and in 127 patients treated with subsequent chemoimmunotherapy protocols. IgV(H) MS did not impact significantly on the complete remission (CR) rate of patients receiving FCR or related regimens. However, CR duration was significantly shorter in patients with CLL that used unmutated IgV(H) than those whose CLL used mutated IgV(H) (TTP 47% vs 82% at 6 years, P < .001). In a multivariate model considering all baseline characteristics, IgV(H) MS emerged as the only determinant of remission duration  (hazard ratio 3.8, P < .001). Our results suggest that postremission interventions should be targeted toward patients with unmutated IgV(H) status."
693	"We present 6 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) that incidentally involved 6 excisional specimens for biopsy-proven carcinoma. CLL was notably absent from all 5 biopsies that were available for review. In 2 of 6 cases, this  was the patients' initial presentation of CLL. Five of 6 cases involved routine paraffin-embedded tissue specimens and 1 case involved frozen tissue sections from a Mohs surgical procedure. The mean age range of the patients was 84 years.  Only one of 5 patients in which we have follow-up data, died of a CLL-related cause at the time of this submission (mean follow-up 19.8 months). On histologic  examination, the most common pattern of involvement by CLL (as seen in 4 of the 6 cases) was a dense, nodular, and superficial and deep perivascular, periadnexal,  and perineural infiltrate beneath the fibrosing granulation tissue of the prior biopsy site. The infiltrate involved the upper and deep reticular dermis and subcutaneous fat. The remaining 2 cases demonstrated a novel finding of a subtle  infiltration of leukemic cells among extravasated red blood cells within the mid  and deep reticular dermis. In all cases, leukemic cells were present as tightly packed, small, monomorphous, hyperchromatic lymphocytes and 1 case demonstrated a proliferation center. Immunohistochemical stains were performed on 3 of 6 cases,  and the leukemic cells were CD5/CD20/CD23/CD3. This case series raises awareness  that CLL can incidentally involve dermatopathology specimens and occasionally be  the initial presentation of the patients' systemic illness. This series also highlights the unique histologic patterns of CLL in the skin, one of which has not been previously described, and illustrates how these patterns are distinct from the typical interstitial infiltration seen in other cases of leukemia cutis."
695	"In a retrospective analysis of a large group of cases (n=291) with B-cell CLL diagnosis, the various characteristics of IGH aberrations as identified by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probes were studied. Conventional cytogenetic and FISH studies with the standard panel (13q14, 11q13, 17p13, 12 centromere), and with IGH break-apart probes were done for each case. Abnormal karyotypes were detected with conventional cytogenetics in 29% of cases, and FISH detected abnormalities in 70%. Deletion of 13q14 was the most frequent anomaly, followed by trisomy 12, deletion of 11q, and deletion of 17p. Among the IGH abnormalities detected, translocations with unknown partners (split signals) occurred in only a small group of patients (15%). Instead, deletion of 5'IGH, corresponding to the variable IGH segment (IGH(V)) was the most recurrent aberration, observed in 82% (the second most common finding among our patients).  This deletion was associated with good prognostic markers: 13q14 deletion, normal karyotype, and CD38 and ZAP-70 negative expression. Although not exclusive to CLL, the deletion occurred in a high frequency, in contrast to its rarity in other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Longitudinal studies are warranted, to determine when in the disease progression this abnormality is acquired, as a potential early marker, and its impact on the natural history of CLL."
696	"Homing to secondary lymphoid organs and bone marrow (BM) is a central aspect of leukemic pathophysiology. We investigated the roles of the two major lymphocyte integrins LFA-1 and VLA-4 on B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells in these processes. We found that the majority of CLL cells expressed significantly  reduced LFA-1 due to low beta2 integrin transcripts. VLA-4 expression was heterogeneous but underwent rapid activation by the BM chemokine CXCL12. CLL cells failed to transmigrate across VCAM-1-expressing, ICAM-1-expressing, and CXCL12-expressing endothelium, whereas when LFA-1 expression was regained in subsets of CLL cells, these lymphocytes rapidly transmigrated the endothelium. Furthermore, when injected into tail veins of immunodeficient mice, normal B cells rapidly homed to lymph nodes (LN) in a LFA-1-dependent manner, whereas CLL  cells did not. Nevertheless, only residual CLL subsets could reenter BM, whereas  both normal and CLL cells homed to the mice spleen in an LFA-1-independent and VLA-4-independent manner. Our results suggest that CLL cells have a reduced capacity to adhere and transmigrate through multiple vascular endothelial beds and poorly home to lymphoid organs other than spleen. Integrin blocking could thus be an efficient strategy to prevent circulating CLL cells from reaching prosurvival niches in LNs and BM but not in spleen."
697	"The incidence of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is low in the Japanese population compared with populations in western countries, suggesting a role for genetic factors in the occurrence of this disease. We have previously shown that chronic  lymphocytic leukemia in Japan rarely expresses the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IGHV) 1-69 gene (1 out of 43 patients, 2.3%), which is a gene most commonly expressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases from western countries. In the current study, we extended the previous study by examining immunoglobulin heavy chain and light chain gene expression in 80 Japanese patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and in 52 Japanese patients with other leukemic chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. IGHV1-69 gene expression was again quite low in our cohort, found in only two patients: one with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the other with splenic marginal zone lymphoma. The IGHV4-34 gene was most frequently expressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (27.5%), whereas it was rarely found in leukemic chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (7.7%, P = 0.005). There was also a significant difference in the expression of IGLV3-21 between chronic lymphocytic leukemia and leukemic chronic  lymphoproliferative disorders (29.4 vs 4.8%, P = 0.018). The IGLV3-21 gene in the majority of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases was associated with homologous complementarity determining region 3 sequences. Recent studies identified subsets of cases expressing almost identical B-cell receptors. We found that two patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the patient with splenic marginal zone lymphoma expressed IGHV4-39/IGKV1-39 and IGHV1-69/IGKV3-20, respectively, which belong to these subsets."
698	"In the past few years, the number of effective treatment options for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has increased substantially. Purine analogs, bendamustine, monoclonal antibodies, and immunomodulatory drugs have shown higher response rates than previously achieved with standard CLL treatments such as alkylating agents. However, a consequence is that increased rates of tumor-cell killing may be accompanied by adverse secondary effects. One well-known consequence of rapid and massive cell killing is a group of metabolic  disruptions collectively known as tumor lysis syndrome (TLS). TLS can be life threatening or fatal when unrecognized and/or untreated, and may cause delays in  treatment of the underlying disease. It is important to be aware of patient risk  factors, prophylactic measures, diagnostic criteria, and treatment for TLS. This  review discusses the relevance of TLS to CLL treatment and provides guidelines for diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of TLS in patients being treated for CLL."
699	"PURPOSE: Rituximab is commonly incorporated into CD20-positive B-cell lymphoma therapy to improve response and prognosis. With increasing use, resistance to rituximab is a continuing concern, but CD20 mutation as a cause of resistance has not previously been reported. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Freshly collected lymphoma cells from 50 patients with previously untreated or relapsed/resistant non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphomas (diffuse large B cell, n = 22; follicular, n = 7; mucosa associated lymphoid tissue, n = 16; chronic lymphocytic leukemia, n = 2; small lymphocytic lymphoma,  n = 1; lymphoplasmacytic, n = 1; mantle cell lymphoma, n = 1) were assessed for CD20 expression by flow cytometry, and CD20 gene sequencing was done on extracted DNA. RESULTS: CD20 mutations were found in 11 (22.0%) of 50 patients and could be grouped as C-terminal deletion (8.0%), early termination (10.0%), and extracellular domain (2.0%) or transmembrane domain (2.0%) mutations. The mean fluorescence intensity of CD20 on fresh lymphoma cells was significantly lower for the C-terminal deletion mutation [3.26; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 0.09-6.89] compared with wild type (30.8; 95% CI, 22.4-39.2; P < 0.05). In contrast, early termination mutations did not show significant differences in CD20 expression compared with wild type (19.5; 95% CI, 10.7-28.4; P > 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: It is possible that C-terminal deletion mutations of CD20 may be related to relapse/resistance after rituximab therapy. These mutations should be  examined in patients showing progression of disease after partial remission."
700	"BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs), small RNA molecules of approximately 22 nucleotides, have been shown to be up- or downregulated in specific cell types and disease states. These molecules have become recognized as one of the major regulatory gatekeepers of coding genes in the human genome. CONTENT: We review the structure, nomenclature, mechanism of action, technologies used for miRNA detection, and associations of miRNAs with human cancer. miRNAs are produced in a tissue-specific manner, and changes in miRNA within a tissue type can be correlated with disease status. miRNAs appear to regulate mRNA translation and degradation via mechanisms that are dependent on the degree of complementarity between the miRNA and mRNA molecules. miRNAs can be detected via  several methods, such as microarrays, bead-based arrays, and quantitative real-time PCR. The tissue concentrations of specific miRNAs have been associated  with tumor invasiveness, metastatic potential, and other clinical characteristics for several types of cancers, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and breast, colorectal, hepatic, lung, pancreatic, and prostate cancers. SUMMARY: By targeting and controlling the expression of mRNA, miRNAs can control  highly complex signal-transduction pathways and other biological pathways. The biologic roles of miRNAs in cancer suggest a correlation with prognosis and therapeutic outcome. Further investigation of these roles may lead to new approaches for the categorization, diagnosis, and treatment of human cancers."
701	"Veltuzumab is a humanized, second-generation anti-CD20 mAb currently under development by Immunomedics Inc for the potential treatment of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Licensee Nycomed is developing veltuzumab for the potential treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Veltuzumab contains 90 to 95% human antibody sequences with identical antigen framework regions to epratuzumab (a humanized anti-CD22 mAb) and similar antigen-binding determinants  to rituximab (chimeric, anti-CD20 mAb and the first-line treatment of aggressive  and indolent NHL). In vitro studies have demonstrated that veltuzumab has enhanced binding avidities and a stronger effect on complement-dependent cytotoxicity compared with rituximab in selected cell lines. In dose-finding phase I/II clinical trials in patients with low-grade NHL, intravenous veltuzumab demonstrated a substantial rate of complete responses in concurrence with shorter and more tolerable infusions compared with rituximab. Currently there has been no evidence of an immune response to repeated administrations, and no serious adverse events related to veltuzumab treatment in patients with NHL. Veltuzumab is undergoing clinical trials using a low-dose subcutaneous formulation in patients with NHL, CLL and ITP. Prospective, randomized clinical trials are needed to clarify the role veltuzumab will play in a market where the therapy of  B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders is dominated by rituximab."
702	"OPINION STATEMENT: Remarkable progress in elucidating the biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been made over the last two decades. Improved understanding of CLL has lead to new prognostic tools and therapeutic options, and holds promise for eventually finding a cure for this disease. Challenges lie  in incorporating the various treatment modalities, including chemotherapy, monoclonal antibodies, immunotherapeutic strategies and novel small molecules, into a comprehensive treatment strategy guided by the biological complexity of CLL."
703	"Previous studies showed that peripheral blood lymphocytes of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) displayed a high intracellular level of cell cycle inhibitory protein p27(Kip1). It has been suggested that its' high expression may confer them survival advantage and lead to unfavorable prognosis, but the prognostic significance of p27(Kip1) expression for previously untreated, non-advanced stage B-CLL was not established. We studied a relationship between the intracellular level of p27(Kip1) of lymphocytes of early- and intermediate stage B-CLL patients and their spontaneous apoptosis in vitro, as well as prognostic significance of p27(Kip1) in B-CLL lymphocytes for the risk of disease progression. Intracellular p27(Kip1) content of peripheral blood lymphocytes obtained from 48 previously untreated 0-II Rai stage B-CLL patients was determined by flow cytometry. The viability and apoptosis of those lymphocytes after 72-h culture were also assessed. During the follow-up period (6-71 months,  median 59.5), we recorded the time elapsed to the doubling of lymphocyte count, progression to a higher Rai stage and the appearance of indications for cytostatic treatment. The p27(Kip1) expression was neither correlated with initial lymphocyte count, CD38 expression, cell viability nor spontaneous apoptosis ratio after 72-h culture. Higher p27(Kip1) level was related to the probability of earlier occurrence of each of three above-mentioned events. We did not find a prognostic significance of in vitro cell viability nor apoptosis as to the risk of disease progression. Our results indicate that elevated intracellular p27(Kip1) level in leukemic lymphocytes of early- and intermediate stage B-CLL patients contributes to rapid progression of the disease."
704	"BACKGROUND: Lymphoproliferative and autoimmune disorders share monoclonal dysregulation and survival advantage of B-lymphocytes. Thus, therapies directed towards eliminating B-cells will play an important role as CD20 is exclusively expressed in B-lymphocytes and its modulation by monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab has improved outcomes in lymphoproliferative and autoimmune disorders.  Ofatumumab is a new, fully human anti-CD20 antibody and has been shown to be effective and safe, but its role in these conditions is still unclear. OBJECTIVES: To describe the preclinical and clinical data available on ofatumumab for the treatment of lymphoproliferative and autoimmune disorders. METHODS: An extensive search of published articles and abstracts on preclinical and clinical studies with ofatumumab was undertaken. CONCLUSIONS: Ofatumumab is a second-generation anti-CD20 antibody that has been demonstrated to be safe and efficacious in patients with lymphoproliferative and  autoimmune disorders. Ofatumumab is fully human, attaches to a newly identified epitope and shows lower off-rates and improved complement-dependent cytotoxicity. Initial data present ofatumumab as an attractive agent with lower rates of infusion-related events than rituximab. Ongoing Phase III trials in patients with follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and rheumatoid arthritis are ongoing, and Phase II trials in patients with aggressive lymphoma and multiple sclerosis are also under development."
706	"BACKGROUND: Programmed cell death has been traditionally related with caspase activation. However, it is now accepted that caspase-independent forms of programmed cell death also regulate cell death. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia,  CD47 ligation induces one of these alternative forms of cell death: type III programmed cell death. This poorly understood process is characterized by cytoplasmic hallmarks, such as mitochondrial damage. To gain insights into the molecular pathways regulating type III programmed cell death in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, we performed extensive biochemical and cell biology assessments. DESIGN AND METHODS: After CD47 triggering, purified B-cells from 20 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia were studied by flow cytometry, immunofluorescence and three-dimensional imaging, immunoblotting, electron microscopy, and fibrillar/globular actin measurements. Finally, we subjected CD47-treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells to a phagocytosis assay. RESULTS: We first confirmed that induction of type III programmed cell death is an efficient means of triggering cell death in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Further, we demonstrated that the signaling events induced by CD47 ligation provoked a reduction in cell size. This alteration is related to F-actin disruption, as the two other cytoskeleton networks, microtubules and intermediate filaments, remain undisturbed in type III programmed cell death. Strikingly, we revealed that the pharmacological modulation of F-actin dynamics regulated this type of death. Finally, our data delineated a new programmed cell death pathway in chronic lymphocytic leukemia initiated by CD47 triggering, and followed by serine protease activation, F-actin rearrangement, mitochondrial damage, phosphatidylserine exposure, and cell clearance. CONCLUSIONS: Our work reveals a key molecular tool in the modulation of cell death in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: F-actin. By assessing the regulation of F-actin and type III programmed cell death, this analysis provides new options for destroying chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, such as a combination of therapies based on apoptosis regulators (e.g., caspases, Bcl-2, Bax) along with alternative therapies based on type III death effectors (e.g., F-actin)."
707	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a malignant clonal population of lymphocytes, which are usually of the B cell lineage. Classical Rai and Binet staging of CLL is being superseded by new prognostic markers. The mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable region heavy-chain genes segregates the disease into more benign and more malignant versions, and has been confirmed as an important prognostic marker in prospective clinical trials. A search for surrogate markers for this assay has led to flow cytometric assays for CD38 and ZAP-70 expression. The human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) molecule exhibits limited tissue distribution and a low polymorphism that generate seven HLA-G isoforms. HLA-G exerts multiple immunoregulatory functions. Recent studies  indicate an ectopic up-regulation in tumor cells that may favor their escape from anti-tumor immune responses. For this report we studied HLA-G in parallel with CD38 and ZAP-70 in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients. HLA-G expression was studied retrospectively in circulating B-CLL cells from 20 patients by flow cytometry using the anti-HLA-G specific monoclonal antibody MEM/G9. The proportion of leukemic cells expressing HLA-G varied from 1 to 34%. We detected a statistically significant correlation between HLA-G positive (>12%) expression and progression free survival (p=0.045), but no correlation with CD38  and ZAP-70. We also detected a statistically significant difference between Binet stage A; B and C (p=0.046) and a positive correlation between IL-10 and HLA-G (p=0.044). We conclude that positive HLA-G has an effect on progression - free survival, when compared with CD38 and ZAP-70."
709	"In the rapidly advancing field of flow cytometry, methodologies facilitating automated clinical decision support are increasingly needed. In the case of B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), discrimination of the various subpopulations of blood cells is an important task. In this work, our objective is to provide a useful paradigm of computer-based assistance in the domain of flow-cytometric data analysis by proposing a Bayesian methodology for flow cytometry clustering. Using Bayesian clustering, we replicate a series of (unsupervised) data clustering tasks, usually performed manually by the expert. The proposed methodology is able to incorporate the expert's knowledge, as prior  information to data-driven statistical learning methods, in a simple and efficient way. We observe almost optimal clustering results, with respect to the  expert's gold standard. The model is flexible enough to identify correctly non canonical clustering structures, despite the presence of various abnormalities and heterogeneities in data; it offers an advantage over other types of approaches that apply hierarchical or distance-based concepts."
710	"PURPOSE: B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by the progressive accumulation of small immature B lymphocytes which do not undergo apoptosis due to an underlying defect. One potential mechanism of defective apoptosis could be irregular oxidative stress. The goal of our investigation was  to determine in vitro production of oxidative stress markers by lymphocytes of B-CLL patients. PATIENTS AND METHODS: 30 untreated stage A B-CLL patients, as well as 20 stage B  and C patients and 30 healthy volunteers as a control group were examined. Nitric oxide (NO), superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde (MDA) were measured by spectrophotometry in supernatants of lymphocytes cultures of all 3 investigational groups. The method applied for detecting apoptosis was fluorescence microscopic analysis using acridine orange/ethidium bromide (AO/EB)  double staining. RESULTS: In vitro lymphocyte production of superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide and MDA was increased in B-CLL patients, while there were no statistical significantly differences of NO production among the tested groups. Compared with the spontaneous apoptosis observed in control subjects lymphocytes, B-CLL lymphocytes showed increased percentages of apoptotic cells after incubation for  24 h. Disease progression was not followed with significant differences in spontaneous apoptosis of B-CLL lymphocytes. CONCLUSION: This intensive oxidative stress markers production in cultures of B-CLL lymphocytes could be one of the potential mechanisms in the pathogenesis of abnormal apoptosis."
711	"Cryptococcosis is a disseminated fungal disease typically associated with immunosuppression and characterized by high mortality rates. Cryptococcus neoformans has been reported to be isolated from blood cultures in around 20% of  patients with cryptococcosis, and cryptococcemia has been correlated with poor prognosis. We report a case of fatal C. neoformans fungemia in a neutropenic patient with a history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with alemtuzumab.  The patient presented with loss of consciousness and died after 5 days of antifungal therapy with liposomal amphotericin B. The international literature regarding opportunistic infections after immunosuppressive therapy with alemtuzumab with particular attention on fungal infections has also been reviewed."
712	"OBJECTIVE: To propose and compare practical approaches that allow eliciting and using expert opinions about the benefit effect on a censored endpoint, such as event-free survival (EFS), used in the planning of a clinical trial based on Bayesian methodology. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Individual interviews of 37 experts. Bayesian normal models on the log hazard ratio (HR) of EFS were implemented. We illustrate our approach by using a trial of autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) vs. chemotherapy (CT) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We elicited experts' prior beliefs about the difference in 3-year EFS between the two treatment arms,  either roughly or throughout weights over the difference scale. Subsequently, a Bayesian synthesis of the information reported in the trial protocol with that in the experts' prior was performed, using: (1) the postulated treatment effect based on null (skeptical) and alternative (enthusiastic) hypotheses with shared standard error; and (2) the expected difference derived from experts' distributions. RESULTS: As compared with the priors based on the trial protocol data, expert priors agreed with some average from enthusiastic and skeptical information, with close standard errors. CONCLUSION: This case study illustrates a rational approach to construct an expert-based prior. It should be considered as part of the design of future Bayesian trials."
713	"PURPOSE: Response to front-line treatment and subsequent clinical course for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are heterogeneous. Identifying pretreatment patient characteristics or prognostic factors associated with clinical outcomes is important for counseling patients, conducting clinical research, and evaluating trial results. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We evaluated the pretreatment characteristics of 595 previously untreated patients who had National Cancer Institute Working Group indications to initiate front-line therapy for predictors of complete response (CR), time to treatment failure (TTF), and overall survival (OS). Multivariable models were developed for all three end points. RESULTS: CR is an important treatment end point correlated with longer TTF and OS. In this retrospective analysis, front-line treatment regimen was a significant independent predictive factor for all three end points; chemoimmunotherapy was the superior treatment regimen. Considering front-line treatment regimen, other independent patient characteristics associated with CR included age and beta(2)-microglobulin (beta-2M). TTF was independently associated with age, beta-2M, percent lymphocytes in bone marrow, and treatment regimen. Improved OS was independently associated with younger age, lower beta-2M, and treatment regimen. Two weighted prognostic models or nomograms, one  including and one excluding treatment regimen, were constructed using significant characteristics to predict 5- and 10-year survival probability and estimate median survival time. CONCLUSION: Identifying pretreatment patient characteristics associated with CR,  TTF, and OS establishes a baseline to compare and incorporate new prognostic factors. Treatment had an impact on the significance of these factors. Prognostic models may help patients and clinicians in decision making as well as facilitate  clinical research through design and analyses of clinical trials."
714	"Because macrophages have been implicated as major players in the mechanism of action of rituximab, we have investigated the factors that modulate their tumor cell killing potential. Human macrophages, differentiated in vitro from peripheral blood monocytes, were used in binding and phagocytosis assays using B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia or lymphoma target cells opsonized with rituximab. Phagocytosis was maximal at 0.1 microg/ml rituximab and was not significantly affected by CD20 expression levels or by CD16A polymorphism at position 158 (Val/Phe). The role of FcgammaRs was demonstrated by complete inhibition of phagocytosis by excess human Igs. Because macrophages can be differentiated to M1- or M2-type cells with either GM-CSF or M-CSF, respectively, and can be classically activated by proinflammatory stimuli (IFN-gamma/LPS) or undergo alternative activation with cytokines such as IL-4 or IL-10, we have analyzed the effect of these different polarization programs on the phagocytosis mediated by rituximab. Macrophages differentiated in presence of M-CSF showed a 2- to 3-fold  greater phagocytic capacity compared with GM-CSF-induced cells. Furthermore, addition of IL-10 significantly increased, whereas IL-4 decreased phagocytosis by both M-CSF- and GM-CSF-differentiated macrophages. LPS/IFN-gamma had little effect. Expression of CD16, CD32, and CD64 in different macrophage populations correlated with phagocytic activity. Interestingly, several B lymphoma cell lines were observed to secrete 400-1300 pg/ml IL-10 in vitro, and coculture of human macrophages with lymphoma conditioned medium increased significantly their phagocytic capacity. Our data suggest that cytokines secreted by lymphoma cells can favor alternate activation of macrophages with a high phagocytic capacity toward rituximab-opsonized targets."
715	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a clinically heterogeneous disease in which the clinical course is influenced by the presence or absence of immunoglobulin (Ig) variable heavy chain (VH) gene mutations. The poor clinical outcome of the subgroup with unmutated Ig VH genes has been linked to the persistent ability of the B-cell receptor in tumor cells from these cases to respond to antigen. As B-cell receptor signaling generally relies on T-cell help, we hypothesized that the course of B-CLL might not only be influenced by the Ig VH mutational status but also by the activation/differentiation status of T cells. We assessed the relative distribution of naive and memory T-cell subsets in peripheral blood from patients with mutated (M-CLL, n=71) and unmutated Ig VH  genes (UM-CLL, n=42) and correlated it with the course of disease. We also compared the prosurvival potential of naive and memory T cells cocultured with B-CLL cells in vitro. A significant increase in relative numbers of central and effector memory T cells was observed in the CD4 T-cell pool from UM-CLL as compared with M-CLL cases and was associated with high Rai stage, progressive disease and shorter treatment-free survival (TFS). In a multivariate analysis, the relative number of CD4 central and effector memory T cells remained a significant prognostic parameter for TFS after correction for CD38 expression, Ig VH status, genomic aberrations, and Rai stage. The inverse correlation of memory  CD4 T cells with TFS might be explained by their potential to support survival of B-CLL cells."
716	"B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells exist in patients as slowly accumulating resting as well as proliferating B cells. In this study, we examined whether Rapamycin and Curcumin, two naturally occurring compounds shown to have apoptotic effects, could selectively induce apoptosis in resting B-CLL cells. Mononuclear cells isolated from patients with B-CLL were treated with these agents and analysed by AnnexinV/propidium iodide binding, caspase activity, and changes in bcl-2/Bax ratio. Rapamycin and curcumin significantly induced apoptosis in resting B-CLL cells obtained from patients with CLL. Furthermore, rapamycin and curcumin increased caspase 9, 3 and 7 activity, decreased anti-apoptotic bcl-2 levels, and increased the pro-apoptotic protein Bax. These data suggest rapamycin and curcumin may be an effective treatment for B-CLL and are of high clinical significance considering the growing population of patients  and lack of efficient treatment for this malignant disease."
717	"Recent guidelines emphasise the risk of hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation among patients with hematologic malignancies of B lineage, in which HBV has been  recently hypothesised to play a pathogenetic role. We aimed to determine the prevalence of occult HBV infection (OBI) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, defined as detection of sequences from >or=2 HBV genes in subjects lacking hepatitis B surface antigen, among patients with treatment-naive chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). HBV DNA sequences from four HBV genes (S, X, core and pol) were searched for in archival material obtained at diagnosis (N = 173), and  from age and sex-matched controls. OBI was observed in 17/173 (10%) patients and  5/173 (3%) controls (OR = 3.6, 95% CI 1.37-9.79, p = 0.014). OBI was not associated with differences on 5-year survival and biological predictors, but patients with CLL with OBI had significantly lower peripheral blood lymphocyte count. After 8 years of observation without treatment, one OBI positive patient with CLL converted into positive HBsAg serology and developed active hepatitis. In conclusion, OBI is significantly more prevalent among patients with CLL than in age and sex-matched controls, and may contribute to the susceptibility of patients with CLL to HBV reactivation, whether exposed or not to biological agents."
718	"A large number of prognostic factors are available to help predict the course of  the disease for patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). However, it is not clear the involvement of these well established prognostic factors in the clinical response of the patients with B-CLL to the chemotherapy.  The possible association of the patient clinical-biological characteristics and the in vitro response to chemotherapic agents may serve to provide powerful predictive information to identify optimum treatment for patients. An apoptosis induction assay displays the patient in vitro responses to chemotherapy and the possible association with their clinical-biological characteristics. In this study, patients showed a significant better in vitro response to drugs when they  were in the initial stages of the disease or with low beta(2) microglobulin serum level. Response to purine analogues was significantly higher in patients with long lymphocyte doubling time (LDT), few cells expressing CD38, normal karyotype  or no p53 deletion, whereas there was no correspondence with ZAP-70 expression. Furthermore, a good correlation was shown between in vitro apoptosis induction assay and the patient clinical response to purine analogues. In conclusion, association between in vitro drug sensitivity and some of the markers considered  as prognostic factors could help to develop personalised therapeutic regimens for patients with B-CLL."
720	"The occurrence of multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the same patient is very uncommon. The immunomodulatory agent lenalidomide has been shown  to have high response rates in multiple myeloma and appears to be quite active in advanced CLL. We report two patients with concurrent CLL and MM who were both treated successfully with lenalidomide."
723	"The protein kinase Syk is a key mediator of proximal B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling. Following antigen stimulation, Syk is recruited to the BCR and becomes activated by phosphorylation at Y352. Recently, Syk was found to be constitutively phosphorylated in several common B-cell lymphoma subtypes, indicating a role for antigen-independent Syk activation in the pathogenesis of these diseases. We now report that Syk is constitutively phosphorylated on the activating Y352 residue in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells. To examine the effects of constitutive Syk activity on intracellular signaling and leukemic  cell survival, we performed in vitro studies with the Syk inhibitor R406. Treatment with R406 induced leukemic cell apoptosis in the majority of investigated cases and affected the basal activity or expression of several pro-survival molecules regulated by Syk, including the Akt and extracellular signal-regulated (ERK) kinases, and the anti-apoptotic protein Mcl-1. In addition, R406 prevented the increase in leukemic cell viability induced by sustained BCR engagement and inhibited BCR-induced Akt activation and Mcl-1 upregulation. Collectively, these data identify Syk as a potential target for CLL treatment and suggest that inhibition of this kinase could provide a double therapeutic benefit by disrupting both antigen-dependent and antigen-independent  signaling pathways that regulate leukemic cell survival."
725	"Wnt/Fzd signaling is known to play a key role in development, tissue-specific stem-cell maintenance, and tumorigenesis, particularly through the canonical pathway involving stabilization of beta-catenin. We have previously shown that Fzd9(-/-) mice have a deficiency in pre-B cells at a stage when self-renewing division is occurring in preference to further differentiation, before light chain immunoglobulin recombination. To determine whether pathologic usurpation of this pathway plays a role in B-cell leukemogenesis, we examined the expression of Wnt/Fzd pathway genes in the Emu-TCL1 mouse model of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We find that, in the course of leukemogenesis, the expression of Wnt16, Wnt10alpha, Fzd1, and most dramatically, Fzd6, is progressively up-regulated in the transformed CD5(+) B cells of these mice, as are beta-catenin protein levels. Elimination of Fzd6 expression by crossing into Fzd6(-/-) mice significantly delays development of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in this model. Our findings suggest that the self-renewal signals mediated by Wnt/Fzd that are enlisted during B-cell development may be pathologically reactivated in the neoplastic transformation of mature B cells."
726	"In lymphatic tissues, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells are interspersed with CD68(+) nurselike cells (NLCs), T cells, and other stromal cells that constitute the leukemia microenvironment. However, the mechanism regulating colocalization of CLL and these accessory cells are largely unknown. To dissect the molecular cross talk between CLL and NLCs, we profiled the gene expression of CD19-purified CLL cells before and after coculture with NLCs. NLC coculture induced high-level expression of B-cell maturation antigen and 2 chemoattractants (CCL3, CCL4) by CLL cells. CCL3/CCL4 induction in NLC cocultures correlated with  ZAP-70 expression by CLL cells. High CCL3/CCL4 protein levels were found in CLL cocultures with NLCs, and CCL3/CCL4 induction was abrogated by R406, a Syk inhibitor, suggesting that NLCs induce these chemokines via B-cell receptor (BCR) activation. BCR triggering also caused robust CCL3/CCL4 protein secretion by CLL  cells. High CCL3 and CCL4 plasma levels in CLL patients suggest that this pathway plays a role in vivo. These studies reveal a novel mechanism of cross talk between CLL cells and their microenvironment, namely, the secretion of 2 T-cell chemokines in response to NLC coculture and BCR stimulation. Through these chemokines, CLL cells can recruit accessory cells and thereby actively create a supportive microenvironment."
728	"The development and the propagation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been linked to signaling via the B-cell receptor (BCR). Protein kinase C beta (PKCbeta) is an essential signaling element of the BCR and was recently shown to  be overexpressed in human CLL. We used the TCL1 transgenic mouse model to directly target PKCbeta in the development of murine CLL. TCL1 overexpression did restore the CD5(+) B-cell population that is absent in PKCbeta-deficient mice. However, PKCbeta-deleted TCL1 transgenic mice did not develop a CLL disease, suggesting a role of PKCbeta in the establishment of the malignant clone. Moreover, targeting of PKCbeta with the specific inhibitor enzastaurin led to killing of human CLL samples in vitro. We thus propose that PKCbeta may be a relevant target for the treatment of CLL."
729	"We previously reported interim results of a phase 1 trial in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) whereby flavopiridol was administered intravenously as a 30-minute bolus followed by 4-hour infusion. We now report full pharmacokinetic (PK) data, correlations of PK with clinical outcomes, and final response and progression-free survival (PFS). Twenty-one (40%) of 52 patients with relapsed CLL achieved a partial response (PR) with a median PFS of  12 months. Responders included 17 (40%) of 43 fludarabine refractory patients, 7  (39%) of 18 patients with del(17p13), and 14 (74%) of 19 patients with del(11q22). Six responders received repeat therapy at relapse, and 5 responded again with a second median PFS of 10 months. Noncompartmental analysis and nonlinear mixed effects modeling was used to estimate PK parameters and evaluate  covariates. Two-compartment population parameter estimates were 31.4 L/h, 65.8 L, 8.49 L/h, and 157 L for CL, V1, Q, and V2, respectively. Flavopiridol area under  the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) correlated with clinical response and cytokine release syndrome, and glucuronide metabolite AUC correlated with tumor lysis syndrome. These composite results confirm high activity of this pharmacokinetically derived schedule in relapsed, genetically high-risk CLL. Furthermore, PK describes some, but not all, variability in response and toxicity."
730	"BACKGROUND: BAFF and APRIL share two receptors - TACI and BCMA - and BAFF binds to a third receptor, BAFF-R. Increased expression of BAFF and APRIL is noted in hematological malignancies. BAFF and APRIL are essential for the survival of normal and malignant B lymphocytes, and altered expression of BAFF or APRIL or of their receptors (BCMA, TACI, or BAFF-R) have been reported in various B-cell malignancies including B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple myeloma, and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. METHODS: We compared the expression of BAFF, APRIL, TACI and BAFF-R gene expression in 40 human tumor types - brain, epithelial, lymphoid, germ cells - to that of their normal tissue counterparts using publicly available gene expression data, including the Oncomine Cancer Microarray database. RESULTS: We found significant overexpression of TACI in multiple myeloma and thyroid carcinoma and an association between TACI expression and prognosis in lymphoma. Furthermore, BAFF and APRIL are overexpressed in many cancers and we show that APRIL expression is associated with tumor progression. We also found overexpression of at least one proteoglycan with heparan sulfate chains (HS), which are coreceptors for APRIL and TACI, in tumors where APRIL is either overexpressed or is a prognostic factor. APRIL could induce survival or proliferation directly through HS proteoglycans. CONCLUSION: Taken together, these data suggest that APRIL is a potential prognostic factor for a large array of malignancies."
731	"Opportunistic infections account for the majority of central nervous system lesions in adult immunosuppressed patients. In this setting, toxoplasmosis typically manifests as multiple abscesses readily seen on routine neuroimaging studies. Asymptomatic, widely disseminated Toxoplasma cysts without parenchymal reaction are also recognized. In contrast, widespread parasites in the brain parenchyma with an inflammatory "encephalitic" reaction and little or no necrosis have been reported in only four patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). We describe a 70 year old male with stage IV chronic lymphocytic leukemia complicated by aplastic anemia. Neurological examination and imaging revealed no  significant abnormalities. At autopsy, the brain revealed multifocal cysts and free tachyzoites of Toxoplasma gondii with diffuse microglial nodules and no necrosis. To the best of our knowledge, this case represents the first report of  the "encephalitic" form of toxoplasmosis in a non-AIDS patient."
732	"Few cases of secondary CD5+ diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) that are not Richter syndrome have been reported previously. We report 9 cases of non-Richter  syndrome secondary CD5+ DLBCL. Among 529 cases of DLBCL, 38 (7.2%) were CD5+ DLBCL, including 9 of secondary CD5+ DLBCL. Five cases gained CD5 expression during the clinical course of DLBCL (group 1). Three cases showed transformation  from CD5- low-grade B-cell lymphoma to CD5+ DLBCL (group 2). The remaining case showed coexistence of CD5+ DLBCL and CD5+ follicular lymphoma. The clonal relationships of CD5- and CD5+ tumors were confirmed in all 4 available cases. Cases of secondary CD5+ DLBCL that were not Richter syndrome were classifiable into 3 groups. Groups 1 and 2 showed the gain of CD5 during the clinical course or transformation of the tumors, suggesting that CD5 expression is closely associated with the progression of B-cell lymphoma."
734	"Although B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is treatable, it remains an incurable disease and most patients inevitably suffer relapse. Many therapeutic options exist for those requiring therapy, including monoclonal antibodies and stem cell transplantation, but remissions tend to last shorter in the course of the disease. Targeting the cell cycle has recently been realized to be an attractive therapeutic approach in solid and hematological malignancies, and the  proliferative nature of B-CLL is increasingly accepted. Here, we report data on a phase II pilot trial with the oral mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor RAD001 5 mg/daily in patients with advanced B-CLL who had progressive disease after at least two lines of treatment. After treatment of seven patients, this trial was stopped because of toxicity concerns, although some degree of activity  was observed (one partial remission, three patients with stable disease). Interestingly, cyclin E expression decreased in responding patients. Further strategies of mTOR inhibition by RAD001 in B-CLL should focus on different treatment schedules, adequate anti-infectious prophylaxis, or combinations with cytotoxic drugs."
735	"Given the recent findings on the importance of CD38 signaling in the pathogenesis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), we hypothesized that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the CD38 gene may be related to B-CLL risk. We  evaluated two potentially functional CD38 SNPs, intronic rs6449182 (184C>G) and missense rs1800561 (418C>T, Arg140Trp) in two hospital-based case-control studies (study A and validation study B). Genotyping was done using PCR-based assays in a total of 460 Polish Caucasian patients with B-CLL and 503 age-matched and gender-matched controls. We found that frequencies of both variant alleles (rs6449182 G and rs1800561 T) were significantly higher in B-CLL. In study A, logistic regression analysis revealed an association between B-CLL and genotypes: rs6449182 CG [odds ratio (OR), 3.57; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 2.4-5.3],  rs6449182 GG (OR, 5.2; 95% CI, 2.36-11.5), and rs1800561 CT (OR, 6.72; 95% CI, 1.5-30.1), although no homozygous rs1800561 TT genotype was detected in either study. These results were confirmed in study B, which showed an association between B-CLL and genotypes rs6449182 CG (OR, 4.00; 95% CI, 2.7-6.0), rs6449182 GG (OR, 12.84; 95% CI, 4.3-38.7), and rs1800561 CT (OR, 10.12; 95% CI, 1.3-81.6), and in the combined analysis of both studies. We also observed that rs6449182 G carriers had more advanced clinical stage (P=0.002) and tended to be younger at diagnosis (P=0.056). Furthermore, we found higher CD38 transcript levels and higher proportions of CD38-positive cells in carriers of rs6449182 G and rs1800561 T alleles (P<0.05 for all comparisons). In conclusion, our data show that CD38 SNPs may affect CD38 expression and contribute to the increased risk of B-CLL carcinogenesis."
736	"Despite tremendous advances over the last 15 years in understanding fundamental mechanisms of apoptosis, this has failed to translate into improved cancer therapy for patients. However, there may now be light at the end of this long tunnel. Antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members may be divided into two subclasses, one comprising Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L) and Bcl-w and the other Mcl-1 and Bcl2A1. Neutralization of both subclasses is required for apoptosis induction. Solution of the structure of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins has led to the design of  novel small molecule inhibitors. Although many such molecules have been synthesized, rigorous verification of their specificity has often been lacking. Further studies have revealed that many putative Bcl-2 inhibitors are not specific and have other cellular targets, resulting in non-mechanism based toxicity. Two notable exceptions are ABT-737 and a related orally active derivative, ABT-263, which bind with high affinity to Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L) and Bcl-w and may prove to be useful tools for mechanistic studies. ABT-263 is in early clinical trials in lymphoid malignancies, small-cell lung cancer and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and some patients have shown promising results. In in vitro studies, primary cells from patients with various B-cell malignancies are exquisitely sensitive to ABT-737, exhibiting novel morphological features of apoptosis including marked outer mitochondrial membrane rupture."
737	"Immunoglobulin M monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (IgM-MUS) was diagnosed in 213 Mayo Clinic patients who were residents of 11 counties in southeastern Minnesota from 1960 to 1994. During long-term follow-up, 29 (14%) developed non-Hodgkin lymphoma (n = 17), Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM; n = 6), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 3), and AL amyloidosis (n = 3) with relative risks of 15-, 262-, 6-, and 16-fold, respectively. The cumulative probability of progression to one of these disorders was 10% at 5 years, 18% at 10 years, and 24% at 15 years, approximately 1.5% per year. Smoldering WM was identified in 48 patients at Mayo Clinic from 1974 to 1995. During follow-up, 33  of the 48 patients progressed to symptomatic WM. The median time to progression was 4.6 years. The risk of progression to WM was 6% at 1 year, 39% at 3 years, and 55% at 5 years."
738	"The tyrosine ZAP-70 (zeta-associated protein of 70 kDa) kinase plays a critical role in activating many downstream signal transduction pathways in T cells following T-cell receptor (TCR) engagement. The importance of ZAP-70 is evidenced by the severe combined immunodeficiency that occurs in ZAP-70-deficient mice and  humans. In this review, we describe recent analyses of the ZAP-70 crystal structure, revealing a complex regulatory mechanism of ZAP-70 activity, the differential requirements for ZAP-70 and spleen tyrosine kinase (SyK) in early T-cell development, as well as the role of ZAP-70 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and autoimmunity. Thus, the critical importance of ZAP-70 in TCR signaling and its predominantly T-cell-restricted expression pattern make ZAP-70 an attractive  drug target for the inhibition of pathological T-cell responses in disease."
739	"The characteristic presentation of herpesvirus infections is a vesicular rash. The initial lesions appear as erythematous papules that turn into grouped vesicles and pustules eventuating into crusts. In most cases, the features are so characteristic that a diagnosis can be made by history and physical examination without further diagnostic testing. However, patients who are immunosuppressed (including those with hematologic malignancies) often have atypical presentations of herpesvirus infections. These cases require a high index of suspicion and appropriate diagnostic testing for proper management. In this report, we describe two patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who developed atypical presentations of herpes zoster and herpes simplex infections. Herpetic infections should always be in the differential diagnosis of cutaneous ulcerations with necrosis in patients who are immunocompromised. Because of the atypical appearance of the lesions, the diagnosis may be confused or mistaken for several  other conditions."
740	"BACKGROUND/AIMS: The financial burden of caring for iron-related complications (IRCs) is an emerging medical problem in Korea, as in Western countries. We produced a preliminary estimate of the costs of treating patients for IRCs. METHODS: The medical records of patients who had received multiple transfusions were reviewed. Newly developed cardiomyopathy, heart failure, diabetes mellitus,  liver cirrhosis, and liver cancer were defined as IRCs. The costs of laboratory studies, medication, oxygenation, intervention, and education were calculated using working criteria we defined. Costs that had a definite causal relationship  with IRCs were included to produce as accurate an estimate as possible. RESULTS: Between 2002 and 2006, 650 patients with hematologic diseases, including 358 with acute leukemia, 102 with lymphoma, 58 with myelodysplastic syndrome or myeloproliferative disease, 46 with multiple myeloma, and 31 with chronic leukemia, received more than 10 units of red blood cells. Nine patients developed IRCs. The primary diagnoses of eight patients were aplastic anemia and that of one patient was chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Two patients who had diabetes were  excluded because one was treated at another hospital and the other was diagnosed  as oxymetholone-induced diabetes. Of the seven patients included, liver cirrhosis developed in two, heart failure in four, and diabetes mellitus in three. Some of  them had two diagnoses. The total cost attributed to IRCs for the seven patients  was 47,388,241 KRW (approximately 50,000 USD). CONCLUSIONS: The medical costs of IRCs are considerable, and more effective iron-chelating therapy is necessary to save medical resources and improve patient care. More in the way of comprehensive health and economic studies of IRCs are needed to allow both clinicians and health-policy makers to make better decisions."
741	"We evaluated the clinical activity of GM-CSF in combination with standard dose rituximab in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The rationale for  exploring this combination is provided by the ability of GM-CSF to increase surface expression of CD20 in CLL cells and potentially render them a better target for rituximab. GM-CSF also enhances antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity against CLL cells. The combination of GM-CSF and rituximab was evaluated as initial treatment in elderly patients with indication for treatment  and in patients at high risk for progression identified by elevated beta(2) microglobulin. This combination was also evaluated in patients with recurrent CLL. On the basis of the results of 118 patients, we observed an overall response rate of 65 and 9% complete remission and these results compare favourably with the results obtained with rituximab single agent. This combination was well tolerated with the most common toxicity consisting in mild GM-CSF injection site  erythema. On the basis of this experience, we are currently evaluating the use of GM-CSF in combination with the chemoimmunotherapy regimen fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab."
742	"The importance of studying p53 pathway defects in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been promoted by the demonstration of the fundamentally different clinical course of patients with 17p deletion. The observation of resistance to chemotherapy and mutation of the remaining TP53 allele explain the clinical presentation of CLL with 17p deletion. Here we review recent evidence that cases  with TP53 mutation in the absence of the deletion of 17p have a similar clinical  and biological course as cases carrying the deletion 17p. In addition, other principal components of the DNA damage pathway reportedly are de-regulated by mutation (ATM), deletion (ATM) or potentially more complex down-regulation (miR-34a) in CLL. Nonetheless, challenges remain because we can only explain resistance in a proportion of the cases that are resistant to first line treatment. This is of particular practical interest because our armamentarium of  drugs in clinical use that acts independent of the DNA damage pathway is growing, for example antibody-based treatment (alemtuzumab), immuno-modulating drugs (lenalidomide), CDK inhibitors (flavopiridol) and steroids."
743	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, non-coding RNAs, which function as evolutionary conserved regulators of a gene expression. They have essential roles in development, cell differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis and chromosome structure. MiRNAs constitute about 3-5% of predicted genes in the human genome (i.e. about 1000); and 20-30% of the protein-coding genes are estimated to be regulated by the miRNAs. The primary evidence that miRNAs possibly act as a novel class of oncogenes/tumor-suppressors comes from the discovery of the miR-15a and  miR-16-1 in 13q14 region deleted in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Moreover, miRNA signatures have been used to classify tumor types. There have recently been several reports on the miRNAs role in CLL pathogenesis and disease subtypes (according to IgV(H) mutation status). In this report, we will review the published observations and present our miRNA profiling data in aggressive CLL with TP53 abnormalities (deletion and/or mutation of p53 gene). We have identified a deregulated miRNA expression pattern (down regulation of miR-34a, miR-29 and miR-17-5p) in these samples, compared to cells with wild-type TP53. It has previously been shown that miR-34a is directly regulated by p53 and targets BCL-2, miR-29c regulates the MCL-1 and TCL-1 proto-oncogenes and the miR-17-5p targets important cell cycle regulatory molecules. Consequently, these three miRNAs could potentially play important roles in the pathogenesis of aggressive CLL."
744	"Loss of a critical region in 13q14.3 [del(13q)] is the most common genomic aberration in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), occurring in more than 50% of patients (Stilgenbauer et al., Oncogene 1998;16:1891 - 1897, Dohner et al., N Engl J Med 2000;343:1910 - 1916). Despite extensive investigations, no point mutations have been found in the remaining allele that would inactivate one of the candidate tumor suppressor genes and explain the pathomechanism postulated for this region. However, the genes in the region are significantly down-regulated in CLL cells, more than would be expected by gene dosage, and recently a complex epigenetic regulatory mechanism was identified for 13q14.3 in  non-malignant cells that involves asynchronous replication timing and monoallelic expression of candidate tumor suppressor genes. Here, we propose a model of a multigenic pathomechanism in 13q14.3, where several tumor suppressor genes, including the miRNA genes miR-16-1 and miR-15a, are co-regulated by the two long  non-coding RNA genes DLEU1 and DLEU2 that span the critical region. Furthermore,  we propose these co-regulated genes to be involved in the same molecular pathways, thereby also forming a functional gene cluster. Elucidating the molecular and cellular function of the 13q14.3 candidate genes will shed light on the underlying pathomechanism of CLL."
745	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterised by resistance to apoptotic stimuli, mediated by overexpression of anti-apoptotic factors or extracellular survival signals. In this context, TOSO, also known as Fas-inhibitory molecule 3, was identified as a candidate gene over-expressed in CLL. TOSO is a transmembrane protein that inhibits Fas-mediated apoptosis by binding Fas-associated death domain via its C-terminal intracellular domain. In CLL, high levels of TOSO expression have been correlated with more aggressive disease, being associated with high leukocyte count, advanced Binet stage, need for chemotherapy and unmutated IgV(H) gene status. Also, the CD38(+) CLL subset with proliferative activity showed enhanced TOSO expression. B-cell receptor-stimulation was identified as positive regulator of TOSO expression, potentially providing a functional mechanism for aberrant TOSO expression in CLL. In contrast, CD40-ligand signalling reduces expression of TOSO, possibly explaining previously observed Fas-sensitisation by CD40-ligand in gene therapy trials. Both the association with unmutated IgV(H) gene status and the specific induction of TOSO  via the BCR suggest autoreactive BCR signalling involving TOSO as a mediator of resistance to apoptosis in CLL. Further studies will reveal the functional context of TOSO in CLL and B cell biology. Surface expression of TOSO will enable antibody-based targeting of this novel CLL-antigen."
746	"Monoclonal B lymphocytosis (MBL) is a frequent phenomenon in the general population. Despite a phenotype similar to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the possibility exists that most cases are not necessarily a pre-leukemic condition. This is suggested by the fact that MBL is at least 100 times more frequent than CLL and the diagnosis of CLL is not an inevitable fate, even among  MBL cases with lymphocytosis, where it occurs only in 1.1% of the cases per year. The high incidence of MBL, if coupled with the possibility of evolution into a frank leukemic state, poses evident clinical and health system concerns. MBL in the general population usually accounts for a very low number of all circulating  B-cells, being <10% of all B lymphocytes. This creates the need for a better characterisation of MBL at molecular level, aiming to identify biological features that may define which cases are more likely to progress towards clinically overt CLL. This approach should also help to avoid unnecessary and prolonged follow-ups in all individuals carrying MBL, excluding those who are extremely unlikely to develop CLL."
748	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia in Western countries. In CLL, a large number of genes affecting cancer-related pathways may  be dysregulated by epigenetic silencing. We analysed by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction the CpG island methylation status of 15 well-characterised cancer-related genes in 32 patients with CLL. Aberrant methylation in the sample of patients with CLL was shown for secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (68.8%), secreted frizzled-related protein 2 (65.6%),  death-associated protein kinase 1 (50.0%), E-cadherin (21.9%), secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (15.6%), p15 (9.4%), p16 (6.3%), retinoic acid receptor beta2 (3.1%), secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (3.1%) and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases 3 (3.1%). For human Mut-L homolog 1, O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase, p73, suppressor of cytokine signalling  1 and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases 2 no hypermethylation was detected. Hypermethylation of at least one gene was observed in 87.5% of the samples. Our results show that aberrant CpG island methylation affecting cancer-related pathways such as Wnt signalling, regulation of apoptosis, cell cycle control and tissue invasion is a common phenomenon in CLL. Epigenetic disturbances may be involved in the pathogenesis of CLL and thus may provide a molecular rationale for therapeutic approaches."
749	"Lymphomas are classified according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) classification which defines subtypes on the basis of clinical, morphological, immunophenotypic, molecular and cytogenetic criteria. Differential diagnosis of the subtypes is sometimes difficult, especially for small B-cell lymphoma (SBCL). Standardisation of molecular genetic assays using multiple gene expression analysis by microarrays could be a useful complement to the current diagnosis. The aim of the present study was to develop a low density DNA microarray for the  analysis of 107 genes associated with B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma and to evaluate its performance in the diagnosis of SBCL. A predictive tool based on Fisher discriminant analysis using a training set of 40 patients including four different subtypes (follicular lymphoma n = 15, mantle cell lymphoma n = 7, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia n = 6 and splenic marginal zone lymphoma n =  12) was designed. A short additional preliminary analysis to gauge the accuracy of this signature was then performed on an external set of nine patients. Using this model, eight of nine of those samples were classified successfully. This pilot study demonstrates that such a microarray tool may be a promising diagnostic approach for small B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma."
750	"Non-hemic autoimmune complications of chronic lymphocytic leukemia are very rare  compared to autoimmune haemolytic anemia, which occurs in between 10% and 20% of  patients and immune thrombocytopenia, which occurs in between 1% and 2% of patients. A clear relationship has only been established with three non-hemic syndromes: acquired angioedema, glomerulonephritis and paraneoplastic pemphigus.  The first is a result of a secreted product of the tumor, but the last two seem to be a product of the disordered immune system, and may be triggered by treatment with purine analogues suggesting a mechanism involving regulatory T cells. Apart from Herpes Zoster infections, neurological syndromes are rare in CLL and most have been attributed to either leukemic infiltration of the CNS or progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy."
751	"CD200 plays a key role in regulating the immune system and has been shown to be upregulated on the surface of different tumors including chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In this study we addressed the effects of CD200 over-expression in CLL  cells on autologous T cells in a mixed lymphocyte reaction system. We used native and CD40 ligand (CD40L)-stimulated CLL cells as antigen-presenting cells (APCs) to expand autologous T cells of 14 patients. T cell proliferation over 3 weeks of in vitro culture was significantly enhanced compared to control cells when using  CD40L-stimulated APCs and the anti-CD200 antibody 1B9 (p=0.0004). CD200 blockade  was further shown to stimulate antigen-specific T cell responses towards the CLL-associated antigen fibromodulin (p=0.04). Finally, the number of CD4+/CD25high/FOXP3+ T cells (T(reg)) was significantly decreased adding anti-CD200 antibody (p=0.04). In summary, CD200 blockade may provide therapeutic  benefits in CLL by augmenting an antigen-specific T cell response with suppression of regulatory T cells."
752	"Increasing information relates some Eph receptors and their ligands, ephrins (EFN), with the immune system. Herein, we found that normal B-cells from peripheral blood (PB) and lymph nodes (LN) showed a differential expression of certain Eph/EFN members, some of them being modulated upon in vitro stimulation including EFNA1, EFNA4, EphB6 and EphA10. In contrast, PB CLL B-cells showed a more heterogeneous Eph/EFN profile than their normal PB B-cell counterparts, expressing Eph/EFN members frequently found within the LN and activated B-cells,  specially EFNA4, EphB6 and EphA10. Two of them, EphB6 and EFNA4 were further related with the clinical course of CLL patients. EphB6 expression correlated with a high content of ZAP-70 mRNA and a poor prognosis. High serum levels of a soluble EFNA4 isoform positively correlated with increasing peripheral blood lymphocyte counts and lymphadenopathy. These findings suggest that Eph/EFN might  be relevant in normal B-cell biology and could represent new potential prognostic markers and therapeutic targets for CLL."
755	"Differential expression of molecules in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) may define prognostic markers and suitable targets for immunotherapy. Expression of the tumor-associated antigen (TAA) RHAMM (receptor for hyaluronic acid-mediated motility) as well as RHAMM splicing variants was assessed in series of 72 CLL patients. Quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR showed higher RHAMM expression in high-risk CLL patients, as well as in the advanced stages of the disease. CLL  cases with a higher RHAMM expression showed a significantly shorter median treatment-free survival. Among patients with mutated immunoglobulin heavy chain genes, an analysis of RHAMM expression enabled to distinguish subgroup of patients with favorable prognosis. In lymph nodes, RHAMM staining correlated with a higher Ki-67 index and CD40L expression. Functionally, stimulation with CD40L enhanced RHAMM expression in CLL. We further characterized RHAMM-specific CD8(+)  T cells in patients with CLL, as the expression of TAAs might influence the clinical outcome by the means of immune reactions. The cytotoxic potential of RHAMM-specific T cells was shown against target cells bearing RHAMM-derived epitope as well as against CLL cells expressing RHAMM. In conclusion, RHAMM expression appears to be of prognostic value, as well as may reflect the proliferative capacity of CLL cells, and might therefore represent interesting target for immunotherapy."
756	"Recent advances in purine analog-based combination chemotherapy and chemoimmunotherapy have significantly improved response rates and progression-free survival in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, there are clinical scenarios in which purine analog-based treatment may not be appropriate, either because of the risk of toxicity in patients with comorbidity or because purine analog-based therapies are unlikely to achieve satisfactory responses. Novel, nonchemotherapeutic treatment regimens  are becoming increasingly important in these patients, as well as in patients in  whom combination chemotherapy-based treatment has failed or resulted in relapse.  Nonchemotherapeutic agents include monoclonal antibodies, glucocorticoids, immunomodulatory drugs, drugs with specific intracellular molecular targets, vaccines and cellular immunotherapies. These agents use diverse mechanisms of action that may complement each other, therefore providing a scientific rationale to investigate combinations of these agents in the treatment of CLL. In this review, we will discuss current knowledge of available nonchemotherapeutic agents, available clinical experience with their use alone and in combination and how these approaches may affect outcomes in patients with CLL."
758	"It has taken time for the status of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to change  within the scientific community. CLL, characterized by the accumulation of seemingly innocent long-lived monoclonal B cells exhibiting mature morphologies,  has long been considered the "Cinderella" of blood cancers. CLL is receiving increasing attention from biologists and clinicians, however, because understanding of this disease may elucidate the association between lymphoid tumous and autoimmunity as well as help to define the relationships between antigen stimulation and malignant transformation."
760	"The in vitro evaluation of histones and their PTMs has drawn substantial interest in the development of epigenetic therapies. The differential expression of histone isoforms may serve as a potential marker in the classification of diseases affected by chromatin abnormalities. In this study, protein profiling by LC and MS was used to explore differences in histone composition in primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Extensive method validations were performed to determine the experimental variances that would impact histone relative abundance. The resulting data demonstrated that the proposed methodology was suitable for the analysis of histone profiles. In 4 normal individuals and 40 CLL patients, a significant decrease in the relative abundance of histone H2A variants (H2AFL and H2AFA/M*) was observed in primary CLL cells as compared to normal B cells. Protein identities were determined using high mass accuracy MS and shotgun proteomics."
761	"BACKGROUND: Growing interest in veterinary oncohematology has facilitated the recent development and advancement of new techniques, such as flow cytometry, for immunophenotyping hematopoietic neoplasia in animals. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this retrospective study was to characterize hematologic abnormalities and flow cytometric immunophenotyping (FCI) results in cases of hematopoietic neoplasia in dogs. METHODS: Signalment, CBC data, and FCI results were obtained for 210 dogs with blood samples submitted to our laboratory. Immunophenotyping was carried out using an Epics XL-MCL flow cytometer and a panel of 10 antibodies (CD45, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD79, CD21, CD14, CD34, CD41/61, CD61). The prevalence and severity of  hematologic abnormalities was determined for the different types of hematopoietic neoplasms. RESULTS: Based on cell morphology and phenotype, cases were classified as: acute  lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL, n=51), acute myeloid leukemia (AML, n=33), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL, n=61), and leukemic high-grade lymphoma (L-HGL, n=65). Most cases of ALL (47/51) and L-HGL (41/65) had a B-cell phenotype, while most cases of CLL (54/61) had a T-cell phenotype, with a high prevalence of the large  granular lymphocyte subtype (49/61). Anemia was found in 85% of all cases and was significantly more severe in ALL and AML compared with CLL and L-HGL. Neutropenia was seen in 64-78% of acute leukemias (AML and ALL) in contrast to no cases of CLL and 11% of L-HGL. Thrombocytopenia was seen in 88-90% of acute leukemias in contrast to 15% of CLL and 40% of L-HGL. Thrombocytopenia was more prevalent (71% vs 22%) and significantly more severe in T-cell vs B-cell L-HGL. CONCLUSION: A standard CBC is useful in suggesting the type of hemoproliferative  disorder and may also help to predict the phenotype, especially in cases of L-HGL."
762	"PURPOSE: Other malignancies have been reported to occur with increased frequency  in chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL). The aim of  this study was to determine the frequency, outcomes, and factors associated with  other cancers in patients with CLL/SLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed the records of consecutive patients with previously untreated CLL/SLL seen at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center from 1985 to 2005. The number of second cancers observed was compared with the number expected from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database. RESULTS: Among 2,028 patients, 324 (16%) had a history of other cancers and 227 (11.2%) developed other malignancies during the follow-up period. Overall, 625 cancers were observed in 551 patients, including skin (30%), prostate (13%), breast (9%), melanoma (8%), lymphoma (8%), gastrointestinal (9%), lung (6%), and  other cancers (17%). The risk of a second cancer was 2.2 times higher than the expected risk. The response rates in patients with and without a history of other cancers were 86% and 92%, respectively (P = .04), and the 5-year survival rates were 70% and 82%, respectively (P < .001). In Cox analysis, independent factors predicting development of new cancers were older age, male sex, and elevated levels of beta2-microglobulin, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatinine. In patients who were treated for CLL/SLL, the treatment regimen did not affect the risk of subsequent cancer (P = .49). CONCLUSION: Patients with CLL/SLL have more than twice the risk of developing a second cancer and an increased frequency of certain cancer types. Awareness of risk factors could permit early detection."
763	"PURPOSE: To review available data using bendamustine alone and in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents in treatment of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. METHODS: Internet database searches and literature review. RESULTS: Bendamustine was approved in March 2008 by the United States Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Many trials have been performed over the last decade using bendamustine not only as monotherapy, but also in combination with other agents including rituximab, vincristine, mitoxantrone, fludarabine, and other agents as therapy for patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and recently was approved for use in therapy of patients with relapsed indolent lymphomas considered refractory to rituximab therapy. As monotherapy, bendamustine induces good responses with only minor side effects. In combination with other agents, efficacy improves, especially when given in combination with rituximab. The drug has also been studied in combination with rituximab as initial therapy for indolent lymphomas,  and has excellent activity with less toxicity than R-CHOP (rituximab - cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin [Adriamycin], Oncovin [vincristine], and prednisone/prednisolone). CONCLUSION: Overall, bendamustine has demonstrated promising results as therapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and should be included in the armamentarium of agents used to treat relapsed indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and may prove valuable as initial therapy for these diseases. Further studies are being conducted to demonstrate the efficacy of this drug in combination with other agents."
764	"Major advances in the management of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) include an enhanced ability to make an accurate diagnosis and define clinically meaningful prognostic groups, while improving outcome through more effective therapeutic regimens and supportive care. Nevertheless, CLL remains an  incurable disorder and new, active agents are needed. Bendamustine, a unique cytotoxic agent with structural similarities to both alkylating agents and antimetabolites, was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for treatment of CLL and rituximab-refractory indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In a randomized trial, bendamustine was superior to chlorambucil, with comparable toxicity. Combinations with other active agents including rituximab and lenalidomide are in development. Nevertheless, numerous questions concerning the  ideal use of this agent remain to be addressed, including the optimal dose and schedule and mechanisms of resistance. The availability of bendamustine provides  another effective treatment option for patients with lymphoproliferative disorders. Rational development of combination regimens will improve the outlook  for patients with CLL."
767	"Symptomatic nervous system leukemic infiltration is rarely observed in CLL. Various clinical manifestations including headache, confusion, cranial nerve palsies, focal central deficits and peripheral neuropathies have been seldom reported, occurring in less than 1% of patients. We report herein 2 CLL patients  with unusual clinical presentations of nervous system invasion. They presented multiple progressive peripheral deficits due to meningoradiculitis. In both, CSF  immunophenotyping analysis identified a majority of T cells (>90%), and less than 10% of B-CLL cells expressing CD5, CD19 and CD20. Our analyses revealed the transformation of CLL into an aggressive B-cell lymphoma in one case (Richter's syndrome). A post mortem study showed massive infiltration of cranial nerves and  spinal roots by large B lymphomatous cells. In the other case, CNS oriented chemotherapy led to remission and total neurological recovery. In practice, the etiological diagnosis of neurological deficits in CLL patients is difficult. CSF  analysis may be useful, requiring viral PCR, repeated cytological studies and immunophenotyping analysis. Although rare, leptomeningeal leukemic localization has to be discussed, even in the absence of overt Richter syndrome, and may require an early therapeutic test."
768	"E3 ubiquitin ligases catalyze the final step in the ubiquitylation cascade and therefore determine the specificity of this important cellular metabolic pathway. Although first thought to be constitutively active, increasing evidence demonstrates the existence of a wide variety of posttranslational modifications that regulate the activity of these enzymes. Here we show that upon induction of  apoptosis the ubiquitin ligase Itch is processed by caspases both in vitro and ex vivo in cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The specific cleavage site was mapped to residue Asp240. Interestingly, cleavage of Itch by active caspases does not inhibit the catalytic activity of Itch, but results in the loss of an N-terminal Itch fragment that contains a negative regulatory region. Our data suggests that caspase-dependent Itch cleavage might be an important regulator of Itch at the endogenous level under both physiological and  stressed conditions."
770	"PURPOSE: We recently demonstrated the biologic importance of the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) subunit Rel A in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and hypothesized that Rel A DNA binding would have prognostic significance in this disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Rel A DNA binding was quantified in nuclear extracts derived from 131 unselected CLL patient samples using a quantitative DNA-binding  enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay-based method. We then investigated the ability  of Rel A to predict for the requirement for treatment and survival and compared our findings with other established prognostic markers. RESULTS: Rel A DNA binding was strongly associated with advanced Binet stage (P < .0001) but did not correlate with immunoglobulin V(H) (IgV(H)) mutation status (P = .25), CD38 expression (P = .87), or zeta-chain-associated protein kinase 70 (ZAP-70) expression (P = .55). It was predictive of time to first treatment (P =  .02) and time to subsequent treatment (P = .0001). In addition, Rel A was the most predictive marker of survival both from date of diagnosis (hazard ratio [HR], 9.1; P = .01) and date of entry into the study (HR, 3.9; P = .05) and retained prognostic significance in multivariate analysis for both time to first  treatment and overall survival in the presence of Binet stage, IgV(H) mutation status, CD38, and ZAP-70. CONCLUSION: Rel A is an independent prognostic marker of survival in CLL and seems to have the unique capacity to predict the duration of response to therapy. Prospective assessment of Rel A as a marker of clinical outcome and as a therapeutic target are now warranted."
771	"This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier  Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy."
774	"Infection is a significant cause of morbidity and death in patients with chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Increased infectious events may arise from the multiple courses of immunosuppressive therapy and progressive deterioration of a  patient's immune system over the course of disease. The humanized, anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab (Campath or Campath-1H) has shown notable activity for both untreated and fludarabine-refractory CLL. The antibody not only targets malignant cells but also affects normal, healthy immune cells. The cumulative effects of the malignancy and successive courses of treatments adversely impinge on a patient's defense response to certain bacterial, fungal, and viral infections. In this review article, we provide an overview of common infectious events associated with alemtuzumab therapy in CLL. We also discuss recommendations for effectively monitoring and managing infections in CLL patients."
775	"Polyclonal anti-T-lymphocyte globulins (ATG) are used in allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) for the prophylaxis of graft versus host disease (GVHD) by  in vivo T cell depletion. In this study we investigated the complement independent induction of apoptosis by rabbit ATG in peripheral blood mononuclear  cell (PBMNC) compartments and hematopoetic stem cells (HSC). We also detected antileukemic activity of ATG by measuring apoptosis in myeloid and lymphatic leukemia cell lines and primary leukemia cells. We found ATG to induce apoptosis  in T-lymphocytes (CD4(+), CD8+), B-lymphocytes (CD20+), natural killer (NK)-cells (CD56(+)), and monocytes (CD14(+)). HSC, in contrast, were apoptosis resistant and could be growth stimulated by low-dose ATG in the presence of bystander cells. The human leukemia cell lines Jurkat, Daudi, DG-75 (lymphoblastic), and K562, HL-60, KG1, and U937 (myeloblastic) underwent ATG-induced apoptosis, whereas the NK-cell line YT was resistant. Primary leukemia cells from 6 investigated patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 9 of 10 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and 4 of 8 patients with acute myeloblastic leukemia underwent ATG-induced apoptosis. We conclude apoptosis induction in all  PBMNC compartments contributes to GVHD prophylaxis. ATG might support engraftment. Finally, antileukemic activity of ATG could positively influence the transplantation outcome."
776	"Alkylating agents form the basis of most combination treatment regimens for low-grade lymphoproliferative disorders. Bendamustine is a unique alkylating agent that has distinctive preclinical activity in cell lines resistant to other  alkylators. Furthermore, clinical activity has been demonstrated in patients with alkylating agent resistant disease. Recently, larger studies have been organized  to study the clinical effects of bendamustine further. In indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that is resistant to rituximab, bendamustine induced a remission in 77% of patients. Myelosuppression was identified as the most common  toxicity. In 2 studies of similar populations of patients, the combination of bendamustine and rituximab induced remission 90% of patients with a median progression-free survival of 23-24 months. The overall remission rate was 59% in  a prospective, randomized study of untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, which was significantly greater than the rate of 26% in the chlorambucil control arm (P < 0.001). Combined with rituximab, bendamustine induces a remission in 67% of patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Bendamustine is an active agent for the treatment of low-grade lymphoproliferative disorders and more study is needed to determine which dose and schedule is optimal, and which patients will derive the greatest benefit from its use."
777	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common leukemia in human  adults of the Western world and no definitive cure is yet available. The disease  is characterized by accumulation of clonal malignant B lymphocytes resistant to apoptosis. Strategies to hit the anti-apoptotic drift of the Bcl-2 family in B-CLL cells are being explored. A novel peptidomimetic based on the BH3 domain of the pro-apoptotic protein Bim and recently shown to exert significant apoptotic activity on acute myeloid leukemia cells, both in vitro and in vivo, was assayed  on ex-vivo derived leukemic cells from untreated B-CLL patients (n = 7). We found that this peptide, named 072RB, induced apoptosis of B-CLL samples at a concentration that does not affect viability of peripheral and bone marrow derived lymphocytes from healthy donors. Apoptosis was demonstrated by activation of Bak and Bax, externalization of plasma membranes phosphadydilserines, appearance of hypodiploid events in DNA flow cytometry histograms and was accompanied by dissipation of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential. Before the onset of marked apoptotic signs a progressive decline of the relevant anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-X(L) and Mcl-1 could be observed. The negative control peptide 072RBL94A was ineffective for B-CLL cells, supporting the sequence specificity of 072RB activity. No relationship was found between responsiveness to 072RB and Mcl-1/Bcl-X(L) basal levels or decrease magnitude, possibly because of the limited sample size of the study. Altogether, we demonstrate that 072RB induces significant apoptosis of B-CLL cells subsequent to Bcl-X(L) and Mcl-1 downregulation."
778	"PURPOSE: Fludarabine is an integral anticancer agent for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and those receiving conditioning regimens prior to allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). An individual's response to  fludarabine may be influenced by the amount of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-lymphocyte suppression. Fludarabine undergoes cellular uptake and activation to form the cytotoxic metabolite, fludarabine triphosphate (F-ara-ATP). METHODS: We have previously developed a highly sensitive LC-MS method to quantitate intracellular F-ara-ATP concentrations in a leukemic cell line. However, quantitation of F-ara-ATP concentrations within CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-lymphocytes from pharmacokinetic blood samples obtained from patients receiving fludarabine therapy is not feasible because of the limited number of T-lymphocytes that can be isolated from each blood sample. Thus, we sought to determine F-ara-ATP accumulation after ex vivo exposure of freshly isolated human CD4(+) or CD8(+) T-lymphocytes to fludarabine. The method was optimized in T-lymphocytes obtained from healthy volunteers, and proved to be a feasible method to determine F-ara-ATP accumulation in patients undergoing HCT. RESULTS: Considerable variability was observed in F-ara-ATP accumulation in HCT patients (10.5- and 12.5-fold in CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells, respectively), compared to healthy volunteers (1.6- and 1.9-fold in CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells, respectively). Larger variability was also observed in gene expression of transporters and enzymes involved in F-ara-ATP accumulation in HCT patients; however, F-ara-ATP accumulation was not correlated with gene expression, which is in agreement with previous studies. CONCLUSIONS: The quantitation of F-ara-ATP accumulation in T-lymphocytes provides a novel tool to evaluate patient sensitivity to fludarabine. This tool can be used in future studies to evaluate whether intracellular F-ara-ATP accumulation is associated with efficacy and/or toxicity in patients receiving fludarabine."
779	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable disease with a highly variable clinical course. A proportion of patients eventually progress to a higher stage of malignancy. A recent association has been observed between the presence of aberrant somatic hypermutations in leukemic cells (hypermutations occurring outside of the immunoglobulin locus) and the transformation to a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or prolymphocytic leukemia. In this study, we report on the rarely observed blastic transformation in a CLL patient who had previously been shown to harbor aberrant somatic hypermutations in the TP53 tumor-suppressor gene (Mol Immunol 2008;45:1525-29). The enzyme responsible, the  activation-induced cytidine deaminase, was still active within the transformation, as evidenced by the ongoing class-switch recombination of cytoplasmic immunoglobulins. The transformation was accompanied by a complete p53 inactivation, as well as complex karyotype changes including prominent amplification of MYCN oncogene. Our case-study supports the view that the aberrant somatic hypermutation is associated with transformation of CLL to a more aggressive malignancy."
780	"Richter's syndrome is defined as the transformation of low grade lymphoma to more aggressive high grade malignant form, usually diffuse large B cell lymphoma. Primary or metastatic cerebral Hodgkin's lymphoma and Hodgkin's lymphoma variant  of Richter transformation are extremely rare. We report a case of 65-year old man who developed isolated intracerebral Hodgkin's lymphoma almost 8 years after the  diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, and we reviewed the related literature. The patient had resection of his CNS lesion, followed by radiation and chemotherapy. The patient eventually died with progressive disease."
781	"PURPOSE: Del17p13 predicts poor outcome and chemorefractoriness in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Conversely, it is unknown whether TP53 mutations carry any prognostic value independent of del17p13. We tested the independent prognostic value of TP53 mutations in CLL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The study was based on a consecutive series of 308 CLL. DNA  sequencing of TP53 exons 2 to 10 and del17p13 interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization were done at CLL diagnosis. Study end points were survival and chemorefractoriness. RESULTS: At diagnosis, TP53 mutations (n = 32) occurred in 31 of 308 (10.0%) patients. Of all CLL showing TP53 disruption by either mutation and/or deletion (n = 44), 10 cases (22.7%) showed TP53 mutations in the absence of del17p13. Multivariate analysis selected TP53 mutations (hazard ratio, 3.20; P = 0.002) as  an independent predictor of overall survival after adjustment for del17p13. Also, multivariate analysis selected TP53 mutations (hazard ratio, 3.97; P < 0.001) as  an independent predictor of chemorefractoriness after adjustment for del17p13. Compared with cases without TP53 alterations, CLL harboring any type of TP53 disruption (mutation only, del17p13 only, or both mutation and del17p13) uniformly displayed a high prevalence of unfavorable prognosticators and poor outcome. Analysis of sequential CLL samples showed the acquisition of new or additional TP53 alterations at the time of chemorefractoriness. CONCLUSIONS: These data show that (a) TP53 mutations are an independent predictor of short survival and chemorefractoriness, and (b) that CLL presenting with TP53  mutations without del17p13 fare as poorly as CLL carrying del17p13. Because CLL harboring TP53 mutations without del17p13 are currently not recognized by conventional diagnostic strategies, these results may be relevant for a comprehensive prognostic characterization of CLL."
782	"OBJECTIVES: Abnormalities of the TP53 or ATM, cooperating tumor-suppressor genes, significantly worsen the treatment options for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Although the aberrations seem to be mutually exclusive in this leukemia, inactivation of the former gene leads to worse prognosis. We tested the in vitro sensitivity of the CLL samples with heterozygous ATM deletion to fludarabine and combination of fludarabine and rituximab; the responses were compared with the TP53-abnormal and wild-type (wt) cells to delimitate relative significance of ATM deletion. METHODS: In vitro analysis was performed on fifty-nine characterized CLL samples  using viability assay WST-1. Western blot and real-time RT-PCR were used to monitor the activation of the ATM/p53 pathway. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: At the clinically relevant concentration of fludarabine, TP53-abnormal samples exhibited markedly higher resistance to fludarabine than the remaining CLL samples (P = 0.012); cohort with ATM deletion was not more resistant than wt cells. A similar induction of the p53 protein and its downstream target genes PUMA and BAX in ATM-deleted and wt cells confirmed that the former subgroup has preserved a critical pro-apoptotic response. Proportions  of the samples, which had been sensitized to fludarabine by rituximab pretreatment, were insignificantly lower (P = 0.22) in the TP53-abnormal and ATM-deleted subgroups compared to the wt cases (30%; 29%; 50%, respectively). The presence of ATM (11q22-23) deletion in the CLL cells should not be considered an  indication of resistance to fludarabine or its combination with rituximab."
783	"BACKGROUND: The introduction of mAbs has changed the clinical approach to patients with lymphoma and leukemia. OBJECTIVE: To summarize the most significant applications of mAb-based regimens in the treatment of hematological malignancies and explore their possible role in the future management of these patients. RESULTS: Rituximab (anti-CD20) was the first mAb developed for the treatment of B-cell lymphomas. Several randomized studies have demonstrated its efficacy in lymphomas and low toxicity profile; rituximab also has significant activity in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Alemtuzumab (anti-CD52) has shown efficacy in previously untreated or refractory CLL patients, while gemtuzumab ozogamicin (anti-CD33) appears to have significant activity in acute myeloid leukemias and myelodysplastic syndromes. CONCLUSIONS: In the next few years, investigations will be concentrated on the improvement of the older mAbs, and the development of new mAbs, targeting molecules important for malignant cell cycle and survival in an attempt to further improve patient survival."
784	"Bendamustine is a cytotoxic agent that combines alkylating and antimetabolite effects. It has shown promising efficacy in a number of hematological cancers and, hence, is being investigated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), which is the most common form of adult leukemia in the Western world. Phase I/II trials with bendamustine as single-agent therapy in CLL have shown overall response rates of 56-93% and complete response rates of 7-29%. Preliminary data from a Phase III trial comparing bendamustine and chlorambucil (an agent widely used in the current treatment of CLL) have shown significantly higher response rates with bendamustine. Bendamustine has also shown activity in  CLL when combined with mitoxantrone, rituximab or both. The principal toxicities  associated with bendamustine are hematological, mainly leukopenia."
785	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is an adult-onset leukemia with a heterogeneous clinical behavior. When chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases were divided on the basis of IgV(H) mutational status, widely differing clinical courses were revealed. Since IgV(H) sequencing is difficult to perform in a routine diagnostic laboratory, finding a surrogate for IgV(H) mutational status seems an important priority. In the present study, we proposed the use of Cryptochrome-1 as a new prognostic marker in early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Seventy patients (Binet stage A, without treatment) were included in the study. We correlated Cryptochrome-1 mRNA with well established prognostic markers such as IgV(H) mutations, ZAP70, LPL or CD38 expression and chromosomal abnormalities. High Cryptochrome-1 expression correlated with IgV(H) unmutated samples. In addition,  Cryptochrome-1 was a valuable predictor of disease progression in early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia, therefore it can be introduced in clinical practice with the advantage of a simplified method of quantification."
786	"Syndecan-1 (sCD138) is a transmembrane heparan sulfate-bearing proteoglycan expressed in epithelial cells as well as hematopoietic cells that demonstrate plasmacytoid differentiation. Higher levels of sCD138 correlate with poor outcome in myeloma. We examined the association of circulating sCD138 levels in plasma with clinical behavior in 104 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. sCD138  levels were significantly higher in patients (median, 52.8 ng/ml; range, 13.4-252.7 ng/ml) than in healthy control subjects (median, 19.86; range, 14.49-33.14 ng/ml) (P < 0.01). Elevated sCD138 (>median, 52.8 ng/ml) was associated with significantly shorter survival (P = 0.0004); this association was independent of IgVH mutation status, beta2-microglobulin (beta2-M) level, and treatment history. Patients with mutated IgVH but high sCD138 levels (>52.8 ng/ml) had significantly shorter survival than those with mutated IgVH and lower  levels of sCD138. Similarly, patients with unmutated IgVH but high sCD138 levels  had significantly shorter survival than those with lower sCD138 levels and unmutated IgVH (P = 0.007). In a multivariate Cox regression model, only Rai stage, beta2-M, and sCD138 remained predictors of survival. These data suggest that sCD138 when combined with beta2-M and Rai stage, may replace the need for testing IgVH mutation status."
790	"On the basis of promising preclinical data demonstrating the eradication of systemic B-cell malignancies by CD19-targeted T lymphocytes in vivo in severe combined immunodeficient-beige mouse models, we are launching phase I clinical trials in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We present here the validation of the bioprocess which we developed for the production and expansion of clinical grade autologous T cells derived from patients with CLL. We demonstrate that T cells genetically modified  with a replication-defective gammaretroviral vector derived from the Moloney murine leukemia virus encoding a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeted to CD19 (1928z) can be expanded with Dynabeads CD3/CD28. This bioprocess allows us to generate clinical doses of 1928z+ T cells in approximately 2 to 3 weeks in a large-scale semiclosed culture system using the Wave Bioreactor. These 1928z+ T cells remain biologically functional not only in vitro but also in severe combined immunodeficient-beige mice bearing disseminated tumors. The validation requirements in terms of T-cell expansion, T-cell transduction with the 1928z CAR, biologic activity, quality control testing, and release criteria were met for all 4 validation runs using apheresis products from patients with CLL. Additionally, after expansion of the T cells, the diversity of the skewed Vbeta T-cell receptor repertoire was significantly restored. This validated process will be used in phase I clinical trials in patients with chemorefractory CLL and  in patients with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It can also be adapted for other clinical trials involving the expansion and transduction of patient or  donor T cells using any CAR or T-cell receptor."
791	"This paper shows a protocol for the detection of ZAP-70 expression in B-CLL (B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia) tumor cells by common immunohistochemical methods. The study was conducted on bone marrow trephine biopsies from 62 B-CLL patients at the time of diagnosis. Immunohistochemical reactions based on peroxidase and alkaline phosphatase reactions were used, as well as double immunofluorescent labeling for ZAP-70 detection as an indirect marker of mutated  and unmutated CLL. Clinical relevance of the ZAP-70 expression detection method was assessed using chi2 test between ZAP-70 positivity data and other known prognostic factors, i.e., clinical and cytogenetics data. ZAP-70 was detected in  13 out of 62 patients. Statistically significant results were obtained for ZAP-70 positive cases and known indicators of worse prognosis. Immunohistochemical analysis supported by double immunofluorescent labeling, as shown here, is an easy and reliable technique for the detection of ZAP-70 expression in B-CLL tumor cells applicable in every hematopathology laboratory."
792	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is dramatically increased in patients above the age of 65 years up to an incidence rate of 22-30/100 000. Although elderly patients represent the largest group of CLL patients they are clearly underrepresented in clinical trials. One important prognostic factor in the elderly is the burden of comorbidity. Survival is significantly impaired in CLL patients with multiple comorbidities (>or=2) or with severe comorbidity (Charlson score >or=2). Therefore, not only age but also the incidence and burden of comorbidity should influence the choice of treatment strategy for every patient individually. A reliable tool for measuring comorbidity is the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale. The German CLL Study Group (GCLLSG) has used this tool within their clinical trials to distinguish between physically fit and non-fit patients. Although chlorambucil is still the standard treatment of choice in non-fit patients, dose-reduced purine analogue-based combination therapies with or without immunotherapy are currently investigated within clinical trials. Because  full-dosed combination treatment might cause increased toxicity rates in relapse  situation, dose-reduced combination therapies should be considered in this situation. An adequate supportive treatment is necessary for the prevention of toxicities as well as for the improvement of health-related quality of life. In summary, the treatment decision in elderly CLL patients is carefully to be made in each patient individually considering not only the stage and risk factors of the disease but also the patients' physical condition and social environment."
793	"Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and complementary techniques were utilized to evaluate the sensitivity of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cell samples in vitro exposed to cladribine or fludarabine in combination with mafosfamide. Mafosfamide, the active in vitro form of cyclophosphamide with  both purine analogs produced the cytotoxic effect on mononuclear cell probes, however, to a different degree. Our results indicated that higher sensitivity of  examined leukemic cell samples to the used drug combinations was usually accompanied by a marked decrease or even a complete loss of thermal transition at 95+/-3 degrees C in DSC scans of nuclear preparations as well as by more significant reduction of cell viability, higher extent of DNA damage estimated by the comet assay and by dropping/disappearance of anti-apoptotic protein Mcl-1 in  comparison with untreated cells. We have also observed that the reduction of transition at 95+/-3 degrees C in thermal scans of nuclear preparations isolated  from blood of B-CLL randomized patients who showed response to cladribine or fludarabine combined with cyclophosphamide, i.e., CC and FC, respectively, corresponded with the decrease or disappearance of anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2  and/or Mcl 1. In conclusion, these in vitro and in vivo studies revealed that quick DSC technique, usually supplemented by other methods, is a potent tool to distinguish efficacy of B-CLL treatment and could be helpful in choosing the most effective manner of treatment for this type of leukemia."
794	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of adult leukemia in the Western countries, however, infrequent in the Eastern. It shows a remarkable heterogeneity, with some patients having an almost normal lifespan, others surviving only several years after diagnosis despite intensive therapy. To explore the prognostic significance of CD38 expression in Chinese patients with CLL, multi-parameter flow cytometry was used to detect the expression of CD38 on  CD5(+)CD19(+) cells of 147 patients. CD38 expression and its association with some other prognostic factors such as Binet stage, lymphocyte count in peripheral blood, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG), ZAP-70  expression and cytogenetic abnormalities were analyzed. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to construct survival curves, and results were compared using the log-rank test. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were used to assess associations between survival time and potential risk factors. Out of the  147 CLL patients, positive expression of CD38 was found in 45 (30.6%) cases. CD38-positivity identified a subgroup of CLL patients with aggressive disease of  Binet stage at the time of the test (P=0.036). Furthermore, the presence of higher serum LDH and beta2-MG levels at diagnosis was strongly correlated with CD38-positive (P=0.016 and 0.025, respectively). Prognostically unfavorable cytogenetic abnormalities, including 17p13 and 11q22 deletions, were significantly more frequent in CD38-positive patients than in CD38-negative ones  (P=0.047 and 0.001, respectively). There was no significant difference between CD38-positive and CD38-negative groups in molecular cytogenetic aberrations of del(6q23), del(13q14), 14q32 translocation, or trisomy 12. In addition, in CD38-positive patients, the percentage of leukemic cells expressing ZAP-70 protein was not significantly higher than in CD38-negative ones (P=0.120). CD38 expression was associated with poor outcome. Patients with positive expression of CD38 had significantly shorter overall survival (mean, 81 months) than patients without CD38 expression (mean, 179 months) (P=0.015). Univariate analysis showed  that serum levels of LDH and beta2-MG, del(17p13) and CD38 expression were the significant factors in determining overall survival (OS). Del(17p13) and CD38 expression were the variables strongly associated with OS by multivariate Cox regression analysis. It was showed that the patients with high level of CD38 expression had poorer outcome; CD38 was a good predictor of OS in Chinese patients with CLL."
795	"We evaluated patients' satisfaction with the physician caring for them as part of an international web-based survey of quality of life (QOL) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL; n=1482). Over half (55.9%) of patients thought about their diagnosis daily. Although >90% felt their doctor understood how their disease was progressing (i.e., stage, blood counts, nodes), <70% felt their physician understood how CLL affected their QOL (anxiety, worry, fatigue). Reported satisfaction with their physician in a variety of areas strongly related to patients' measured emotional and overall QOL (all p<0.001). Physician use of specific euphemistic phrases to characterize CLL (e.g., "CLL is the 'good' leukemia") was also associated with lower emotional QOL among patients (p<0.001). These effects on QOL remained (p<0.001) after adjustment for age, co-morbid health conditions, fatigue, and treatment status. The effectiveness with which physicians help patients adjust to the physical, intellectual, and emotional challenges of CLL appears to impact patient QOL."
797	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common leukemia in older adults, remains largely incurable and novel treatments are urgently required. We  previously reported powerful pro-apoptotic actions of bezafibrate (BEZ) and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) against Burkitts lymphoma cells. Here, we demonstrate that BEZ and MPA individually, and more potently when combined (BEZ+MPA), induce apoptosis of unsorted and CD19(+ve)-selected CLL cells and abrogate the pro-proliferative activity of CD40(L). This action was tumor cell specific, as the drugs had little impact on normal donor cells. The antiproliferative actions of BEZ+MPA were associated with the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and the proapoptotic actions were associated with  the generation of both ROS and mitochondrial superoxide (MSO). BEZ increased prostaglandin D(2) (PGD(2)) synthesis by CLL cells, and treatment with PGD(2) and its antineoplastic derivative 15dDelta(12,14,)PGJ(2) recapitulated BEZ-induced antiproliferative and proapoptotic actions. The PGD(2) receptor antagonist, BW868C, did not block BEZ or PGD(2) activity against CLL cells. The potency of BEZ+MPA against CLL cells mirrored that of chlorambucil, and BEZ+MPA combined with chlorambucil was more potent than either treatment alone. Given the known safety profiles of BEZ and MPA, our data warrant further investigation of their potential as novel therapy for CLL."
798	"The assembly of a collection of gene-expression signatures of the major types of  B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has identified increased T-cell leukemia/lymphoma 1A (TCL1) expression in multiple lymphoma types and cases, and has enabled the investigation of the functional and clinical importance of TCL1 expression. Specifically, Burkitt's lymphoma cases show a homogeneously strong expression of  TCL1, whereas diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, nodal marginal zone lymphoma, and splenic marginal zone lymphoma display a striking variability in the intensity of TCL1 staining. This was validated in two independent series. A Gene-Set Enrichment Analysis of the genes correlated with TCL1A expression found that variation in the level of expression of TCL1A was significantly associated with some of the most important gene signatures recognizing B-cell lymphoma pathogenesis and heterogeneity, such as germinal center, B-cell receptor, NF-kappaB (and its target genes), death, MAP kinases, TNFR1, TOLL, and IL1R. Additionally, TCL1 expression was correlated with shorter time to treatment in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases and shorter lymphoma-specific survival in mantle cell lymphoma series, thus indicating the clinical and biological significance of TCL1 expression, and suggesting TCL1A as a potential therapeutic target."
800	"Phytochemical investigations of the seeds of ALLANBLACKIA MONTICOLA have led to the isolation and characterization of one new xanthone derivative, named allanxanthone E ( 1), together with seven known compounds, including five xanthones, 1,7-dihydroxy-3-methoxy-2-(3-methylbut-2-enyl)xanthone ( 2), alpha-mangostin ( 3) , garciniafuran ( 4) , allanxanthone C ( 5), and 1,6-dihydroxy-2,4-diprenylxanthone ( 6), and two pentacyclic triterpenes, friedelin and lupeol. The structures of these compounds were established on the basis of one- and two-dimensional NMR homo- and heteronuclear correlation evidence. Some of these compounds were evaluated for their apoptotic and antiproliferative activities against human leukemic B lymphocytes, such as the hairy cell leukemia-derived ESKOL cell line and cells from B-CLL (B-cell chronic  lymphocytic leukemia) patients."
802	"Fludarabine (FAMP) is the most effective and most extensively studied purine analog in indolent B-cell malignancies. Its use is indicated for first-and second-line treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). FAMP as a single agent has produced superior response rates and progression-free survival than standard therapy with chlorambucil and alkylator-based regimen. Efficacy of  FAMP may be increased by combining this purine analog with other chemotherapeutic and non-chemotherapeutic agents. FAMP and cyclophosphamide combination (FC) has shown promising results with higher overall response and complete response rates  than FAMP in monotherapy, although no difference has been detected in survival. Quality of response and eradication of minimal residual disease (MRD) have been reported to be associated with prolonged survival. Eradication of MRD has been achieved by combining FC with mitoxantrone or monoclonal antibody including alemtuzumab or rituximab or both. FAMP has been widely used in non-myeloablative  conditioning regimens, often combined with a variety of other cytotoxic agents, with the aim of inducing enough immunosuppression to allow successful engraftment and to exert some pretransplant anti-tumor activity. The current paper provides an overview of use of FAMP as a single agent or as a cornerstone of different therapeutic strategies for treatment of B-CLL patients."
805	"BACKGROUND: Regions with copy number variations (in germline cells) or copy number alteration (in somatic cells) are of great interest for human disease gene mapping and cancer studies. They represent a new type of mutation and are larger-scaled than the single nucleotide polymorphisms. Using genotyping microarray for copy number variation detection has become standard, and there is  a need for improving analysis methods. RESULTS: We apply the cumulative plot to the detection of regions with copy number variation/alteration, on samples taken from a chronic lymphocytic leukemia patient. Two sets of whole-genome genotyping of 317 k single nucleotide polymorphisms, one from the normal cell and another from the cancer cell, are analyzed. We demonstrate the utility of cumulative plot in detecting a 9 Mb (9 x  10(6) bases) hemizygous deletion and 1 Mb homozygous deletion on chromosome 13. We also show the possibility to detect smaller copy number variation/alteration regions below the 100 kb range. CONCLUSION: As a graphic tool, the cumulative plot is an intuitive and a scale-free (window-less) way for detecting copy number variation/alteration regions, especially when such regions are small."
807	"Myeloid cell leukemia-1 (Mcl-1) is an antiapoptotic member of the Bcl-2 protein family. Increased Mcl-1 expression is associated with failure to achieve remission after treatment with fludarabine and chlorambucil in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, the influence of Mcl-1 expression has not been examined in CLL trials using chemoimmunotherapy. We investigated Mcl-1 protein expression prospectively as part of a phase 2 study evaluating the  efficacy of pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab in patients with untreated CLL. No significant difference by Mcl-1 expression was noted in pretreatment or response parameters. However, in patients with higher Mcl-1 expression, both minimal residual disease-negative status and progression-free survival was found to be significantly reduced (57% vs 19%, P = .01; 50.8 vs 18.7 months; P = .02; respectively). Mcl-1 expression may therefore be useful in predicting poor response to chemoimmunotherapy. These findings further support pursuing treatment strategies targeting this important antiapoptotic protein. (Because the trials described were conducted before the requirement to register them was implemented, they are not registered in a clinical trial database.)."
808	"BACKGROUND: An 11q22 deletion is considered an independent factor predicting poor survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: We searched the electronic CLL database for consecutive patients who presented to the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center Department of Leukemia from October 2003 to April 2007 with untreated CLL and who had an 11q22 deletion, detected by  fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of bone marrow samples. FISH analysis was performed using the following probes: trisomy 12 (12p11.1-q11), TP53 (17p13.1), ATM (11q22.3), LAMP1 (13q34), and D13S319 loci (13q14.3). RESULTS: Sixty-nine patients with untreated CLL with an 11q22 deletion were identified. The median patient age was 59 years (range, 26-81 years); 80% were men, 53% had Zubrod performance status>0, and 13% had Rai stage III to IV disease. Lymphadenopathy (massive), splenomegaly, anemia, and thrombocytopenia were present in 96% (12%), 19%, 9%, and 4%, respectively. In addition, 62% of patients had deletions in 13q, and 3% had trisomy 12. Forty patients required therapy for progressive disease. The overall response rates for FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab), CFAR (FCR plus alemtuzumab), and rituximab plus granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor were 100%, 100%, and 33%, respectively. The 11q22 deletion was undetectable in 25 of 27 patients monitored  after treatment using FISH analysis. The median follow-up was 17 months. At 1 and 3 years, the survival rates were 97% and 91%, respectively, and the relapse-free  survival rates were 100% and 77%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: CLL with an 11q22 deletion was associated with high rates of response, survival, and relapse-free survival when treated with chemoimmunotherapy."
809	"BACKGROUND: The clinical course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is highly variable. A prognostic index based on widely available clinical and laboratory features was recently developed to predict survival among patients with previously untreated CLL. This index requires validation in an independent series of patients before widespread use can be recommended. METHODS: The Mayo Clinic CLL database was used to evaluate the validity and reproducibility of the new prognostic index. RESULTS: A total of 440 patients with newly diagnosed CLL who were seen at the Mayo Clinic within 12 months of diagnosis and for whom data were available with which to calculate index score were identified. Patients were classified as low,  intermediate, or high risk using the prognostic index. The estimated median survival times were: not reached for low risk, 10.1 years for intermediate risk,  and 7.2 years for high risk. The estimated median and 5-year survival by prognostic index risk category were similar to those originally reported. The prognostic index risk category added predictive value beyond that of Rai risk alone (P=.004). The prognostic index risk category remained a predictor of survival when analysis was limited to Rai stage 0 (P=.03) and nonreferred patients (P<.0001) and also predicted time to treatment (P<.0001). CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study confirm the ability of a newly developed prognostic index to predict survival among patients with previously untreated CLL. The study also extended the utility of the index by demonstrating  that it is useful at diagnosis, retains prognostic value when applied exclusively to Rai stage 0 patients, is effective in nonreferred patients, and predicts time  to treatment."
810	"The goal of this study was to evaluate the relation of chromosomal abnormalities  detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in the prognosis of B-cell  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients. We evaluated the common recurrent  chromosomal aberrations in 79 B-CLL patients (51 men, 28 women; mean age 64.3+/-1.2) by FISH analysis using 11q22.3 (ATM), 13q14.3 (13S319 and 13S25), CEP12, and 17p13.1 (TP53) specific probes. Of the 79 patients analyzed by FISH, 40 or 50.6% had at least one aberration. In particular, 34 (43%) patients had a single abnormality and 6 (7.6%) patients had 2 abnormalities. The most frequent abnormality was 13q14.3 deletion, which was detected in 26 (32.9%) patients. Trisomy 12 was seen in 12 (15.2%) cases, and was followed by 17p13.1 (TP53) deletions and 11q22.3 (ATM) deletions in 6 (7.6%) and 4 (5.1%) patients, respectively. When the overall frequencies of these chromosomal aberrations were  distributed according to RAI stages, the majority of patients with 13q14.3 deletion (55%), trisomy 12 (70%), and ATM or TP53 deletions (66.7 %) were in advanced stages of disease (RAI II-IV). The overall survival durations in good, intermediate, and poor prognostic groups were 51+/-1.3, 50.9+/-8.6, and 12+/-3.3  months, respectively. Our data suggests that FISH analysis of B-CLL patients provides important diagnostic, clinical, and prognostic information which may help clinicians assess the prognosis and make appropriate treatment decisions."
813	"We analyzed somatic hypermutation (SHM) patterns and secondary rearrangements involving the immunoglobulin (IG) light chain (LC) gene loci in 725 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Important differences regarding mutational load and targeting were identified in groups of sequences defined by IGKV/IGLV gene usage and/or K/LCDR3 features. Recurrent amino acid (AA) changes in the IGKV/IGLV sequences were observed in subsets of CLL cases with stereotyped B-cell receptors (BCRs), especially those expressing IGHV3-21/IGLV3-21 and IGHV4-34/IGKV2-30 BCRs. Comparison with CLL LC sequences carrying heterogeneous K/LCDR3s or non-CLL LC sequences revealed that distinct amino acid changes appear to be "CLL-biased." Finally, a significant proportion of CLL cases with monotypic LC expression were found to carry multiple potentially functional LC rearrangements, alluding to active, (auto)antigen-driven receptor editing. In conclusion, SHM targeting in CLL LCs is just as precise and, likely, functionally driven as in heavy chains. Secondary LC gene rearrangements and subset-biased mutations in CLL LC genes are strong indications that LCs are crucial in shaping  the specificity of leukemic BCRs, in association with defined heavy chains. Therefore, CLL is characterized not only by stereotyped HCDR3 and heavy chains but, rather, by stereotyped BCRs involving both chains, which generate distinctive antigen-binding grooves."
814	"Obatoclax mesylate is a small molecule pan-Bcl-2 antagonist with in vitro activity against chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Obatoclax was administered to patients with advanced CLL at doses ranging from 3.5 to 14 mg/m(2) as a 1-hour infusion and from 20 to 40 mg/m(2) as a 3-hour infusion every 3 weeks. Twenty-six patients received a total of 74 cycles. Dose-limiting reactions were neurologic (somnolence, euphoria, ataxia) and associated with the  infusion. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was 28 mg/m(2) over 3 hours every 3 weeks. One (4%) of 26 patients achieved a partial response. Patients with anemia  (3/11) or thrombocytopenia (4/14) experienced improvements in hemoglobin and platelet counts. Circulating lymphocyte counts were reduced in 18 of 26 patients  with a median reduction of 24%. Overall, the maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and area under the curve (AUC) values of obatoclax were dose proportional. Activation of Bax and Bak was demonstrated in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and induction of apoptosis was related to overall obatoclax exposure, as monitored by the plasma concentration of oligonucleosomal DNA/histone complexes. Obatoclax mesylate has biologic activity and modest single-agent activity in heavily pretreated patients with advanced CLL. Further evaluation in less heavily pretreated patients and in combination with other therapeutic agents is warranted. This trial has been registered with http://clinicaltrials.gov under identifier NCT00600964."
815	"Flavopiridol has shown promising activities in hematologic and solid tumor models, as well as in clinical trials in chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. Flavopiridol has relatively low solubility and high plasma protein-binding. To address these issues and to provide an alternative strategy to achieve clinical efficacy, we encapsulated flavopiridol into a liposomal carrier and characterized its physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties. The liposomes, comprising hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine (HSPC), cholesterol and poly (ethylene glycol) 2000-distearoyl phosphatidylethanolamine (PEG-DSPE), were prepared by polycarbonate membrane extrusion and then loaded with flavopiridol by a pH-gradient driven remote loading procedure. The liposomes had a mean diameter of 120.7 nm and a flavopiridol entrapment efficiency of 70.4%. Pharmacokinetic study in mice after i.v. bolus injection showed that the liposomal flavopiridol had an  increased elimination phase half-life (T((1/2)beta), 339.7 min vs. 57.0 min), decreased clearance (CL, 0.012 L/min vs. 0.036 L/min), and increased area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC, 10.8 min micromol/L vs. 3.4 min micromol/L) compared to the free drug. This indicates a significant and potentially beneficial change in flavopiridol pharmacokinetics for the liposomal  formulation. Further preclinical studies are warranted to define the toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of this novel formulation."
816	"BACKGROUND: Myeloproliferative neoplasms likely involve both myeloid and lymphoid lineages. Nevertheless, the coincidence of chronic myeloproliferative and lymphoproliferative diseases in the same patient is a rare phenomenon. METHODS: We report a case of a patient having essential thrombocythemia (ET) and  B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In this patient and in 2 relatives with lymphoproliferative disorders, we searched for JAK2(V617F) mutation in lymphocytes. RESULTS: In the patient with ET and B-CLL, we identified homozygous JAK2(V617F) mutation in the granulocytic compartment. Both relatives were heterozygous for JAK2(V617F) mutation, whereas no mutation signal could be detected in the lymphoid compartment of all 3 patients. CONCLUSION: Our results seem to confirm that CLL cases are negative for JAK2(V617F) mutation in B- and T-lymphocyte populations.Presence of JAK2(V617F) mutation in subjects without myeloproliferative diseases could indicate an increased risk of a future myeloproliferative neoplasm development."
817	"BACKGROUND/AIMS: Disease-related anemia in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) occurs when the obvious causes are excluded while its pathogenesis is still obscure. We investigated its underlying mechanisms in 56 untreated patients with  CLL. METHODS: Bone marrow (BM) lymphocytic infiltration was estimated in trephine biopsies. Serum erythropoietin (EPO) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)  levels were measured by ELISA. The potential of BM CD34+ to differentiate into erythroid cells was evaluated by methylcellulose-based assays and in liquid cultures supplemented with EPO, SCF, IL-3 +/- TNF-alpha. The response of erythroid precursors to EPO +/- TNF-alpha was assessed by detecting activated key proteins of EPO-EPO receptor signalling pathway using Western Blot and EMSA. RESULTS: Bone marrow lymphocytic infiltration was not exclusively responsible for disease-related anemia and CD34+ cells were intrinsically capable of generating erythroid precursors. Also, no deficiency of serum erythropoietin (EPO) or defective intracellular response of erythroid precursors to EPO +/- TNF-alpha stimulation was observed. Serum TNF-alpha levels were found increased in anemic CLL patients and TNF-alpha appeared to directly inhibit the erythroid development in early stages of erythropoiesis. CONCLUSION: We concluded that CLL-related anemia was not due to intrinsic defects of erythroid precursors, but might result from the direct suppressive effect of TNF-alpha on the erythroid production."
818	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most frequent leukemic disease of adults in the Western world. It is remarkable by an extraordinary heterogeneity of clinical course with overall survival ranging from several months to more than 15 years. Classical staging sytems by Rai and Binet, while readily available and  useful for initial assessment of prognosis, are not able to determine individual  patient's ongoing clinical course of CLL at the time of diagnosis, especially in  early stages. Therefore, newer biological prognostic parameters are currently being clinically evaluated. Mutational status of variable region of immunoglobulin heavy chain genes (IgVH), cytogenetic aberrations, and both intracellular ZAP-70 and surface CD38 expression are recognized as parameters with established prognostic value. Molecules regulating the process of angiogenesis are also considered as promising markers. The purpose of this review is to summarize in detail the specific role of these prognostic factors in chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
819	"Angiogenesis is involved in the pathogenesis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and high microvascular density has been found in CLL to be associated with a poor prognosis. In this study, we assessed serum levels of adiponectin in 69 patients with Binet stage A B-CLL, and these values were retrospectively correlated with bone marrow (BM) microvessel area and serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), angiogenin, PECAM-1 (CD31), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), interleukin-8 (IL-8), syndecan-1, and the percentage of CD38(+) or ZAP-70(+) CLL  cells. The positive correlation between serum levels of adiponectin and VEGF (P = .03) does not translate into an increase of the extent of BM angiogenesis (P = .404), FGF-2 (P = .348), angiogenin (P = .402), and CD31 (P = .248) serum concentrations. Accordingly, IL-8 (P = .175), syndecan-1 (P = .06), and MMP-9 (P  = .144) circulating levels were not likely to reflect adiponectin concentration.  Furthermore, patients with higher levels of adiponectin had a more favorable biological profile as defined by a lower number of both CD38(-) (r = -0.294; P =  .02) and ZAP-70(+) (r = -0.285; P = .04). Finally, we evaluated the presence of adiponectin in B-CLL cells at gene expression level. RMA intensity values for adiponectin gene transcript denote a homogeneous low expression in B-CLL cells, whereas VEGF transcript was highly expressed with a degree of interpatient variability. Overall, these data seem to indicate that adiponectin could be involved as an antiangiogenic factor in B-CLL."
820	"Background. Intravenous alemtuzumab and fludarabine are effective in combination  for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), but require hospital visits for intravenous injection. We performed a pilot study to assess the safety and efficacy of outpatient-based oral fludarabine with subcutaneous alemtuzumab (OFSA) for the treatment of relapsed/refractory CLL. Results. Depending on their  response, patients were given two to six 28-day cycles of subcutaneous alemtuzumab 30 mg on days 1,3, and 5 and oral fludarabine 40 mg/m(2)/day for 5 days. Median patient age was 74. The lymphocyte counts of all five patients fell  after the 1st cycle of treatment and reached normal/low levels on completion of 2 to 6 cycles of therapy. Platelet counts and hemoglobin were unaffected. All five  patients achieved complete hematological remission, while two attained minimal residual disease negativity on 4-color flow cytometry. Conclusions. Our OFSA regimen was effective in elderly Asian patients with relapsed/refractory CLL, and it should be investigated further."
821	"Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are CD5+ small  B-cell neoplasms (SBCNs) with overlapping features. Flow cytometric immunophenotyping is often used to help differentiate CLL from MCL, and a characteristic CLL phenotype is considered essentially diagnostic. However, previous studies have not specifically examined how well a typical MCL immunophenotype distinguishes MCL from CLL. We identified 28 cases of SBCN with typical flow cytometry-determined MCL immunophenotypes consisting mostly of peripheral blood and bone marrow specimens. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis indicated that 57% (16/28) had t(11;14) translocations consistent with MCL, while 32% (9/28) lacked t(11;14) translocations but harbored other cytogenetic abnormalities commonly found in CLL. There were no significant morphologic or immunophenotypic differences between the t(11;14)-positive and t(11;14)-negative cases. Our findings suggest that many blood-based SBCNs with typical MCL immunophenotypes likely represent cases of phenotypically atypical CLL, which would have important clinical implications."
822	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable with standard therapy. Most  patients with CLL have an indolent clinical course, but it is possible to identify patients with high-risk disease. Younger patients with adverse risk factors will die from their disease, and are therefore candidates for clinical trials exploring hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Autologous SCT is feasible and has low treatment-related mortality (TRM); but it is not curative. Myeloablative allogeneic SCT is associated with high treatment-related  mortality and, TRM few late relapses, but is applicable to only a small number of CLL patients. The major focus of SCT in CLL has been with reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) allogeneic SCT, which is applicable to the more elderly patient population with this disease and which attempts to exploit the graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect that exists in CLL. Steps to further decrease  the morbidity and mortality of the RIC SCT, and, in particular, to reduce the incidence of extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) remain the major focus. Many potential treatments are available for CLL, and appropriate patient selection and the timing of SCT remain controversial and the focus of ongoing clinical trials. The use of SCT must always be weighed against the risk of the underlying disease, particularly in a setting where improvements in treatment are leading to improved outcome."
823	"SUMMARY: The clinical course of individual CLL patients is highly variable, with  life expectancies ranging from months to decades. Importantly, a significant subset of patients presents with low grade CLL, but will nevertheless develop a more aggressive and life-threatening disease. As these patients may potentially benefit from early treatment, it is crucial to assess patients' prognosis at diagnosis, allowing individual risk-adapted therapy. Reliable predictions of prognosis in an early stage of the disease have long been lacking in the clinical workup of CLL patients. During the last decades many efforts have been made to identify prognostic markers in CLL, resulting in a plethora of reports describing the predictive value of different parameters with regard to overall survival, disease progression and response to therapy. In this review, we attempt to provide an overview of the literature and we discuss the most important prognostic markers in CLL, from clinical staging systems and serum markers over proliferation markers and cytogenetics to more recent markers like the IgV(H) mutation status and its possible surrogate markers. Particular attention is paid  to the advantages and drawbacks of all different markers, both from a clinical and from a technical point-of-view, highlighting the accomplishments as well as the remaining challenges in this rapidly evolving area of CLL research. Although  the great majority of prognostic markers is not included in current international treatment guidelines, several of these markers deserve to be evaluated in prospective clinical trials and may eventually contribute to an improved clinical management of CLL patients."
824	"BACKGROUND: The 17p13.1 deletion that causes loss of the p53-encoding TP53 gene is the most powerful predictor of a poor response to conventional therapy and shortened survival in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The results of this study have demonstrated that the cladribine and cyclophosphamide  regimen may improve treatment results in this poor-risk patient population. METHODS: In this study, the authors retrospectively analyzed the efficacy and toxicity of 2-CdA with cyclophosphamide combination (the CC regimen) in 20 patients with previously untreated B-cell CLL who had 17p13.1 deletion reported to the Polish Adult Leukemia Group (PALG) registry. The CC regimen consisted of 2-CdA at a dose of 0.12 mg/kg and cyclophosphamide at a dose of 250 mg/m2 given intravenously for 3 consecutive days. The CC cycles were repeated at 28-day intervals for up to 6 cycles. RESULTS: Overall, 16 of 20 patients (80%) responded to CC therapy, including 10 patients (50%) who obtained a complete response and 6 patients (30%) who obtained a partial response. The median progression-free survival reached 23 months (95% confidence interval, 5-41 months). The overall survival probability at 2 years was 52.5% (95% confidence interval, 26%-79%). Treatment toxicity generally was acceptable. Infections were the most common grade 3/4 complications and occurred  in 6 patients (30%). CONCLUSIONS: In this retrospective analysis, the results demonstrated that the CC regimen produced a relatively high response rate in patients with previously untreated CLL who had 17p13.1/TP53 deletion, although the response duration and survival were not satisfactory. It is possible that a combination of the CC regimen with p53-independent agents may improve treatment results in this poor-risk patient population."
826	"BACKGROUND: The soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) is established as a test for  iron deficiency (ID). In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), sTfR is not reliable for screening for ID as the latter is strongly dependent on tumor burden. METHODS: We investigated whether the influence of the tumor load can be excluded  or minimized using the sTfR/log ferritin ratio (TfR-F-Index) and the C-reactive protein (CRP)-adjusted TfR-F-Index in 87 patients with CLL. sTfR was measured nephelometrically (normal: 0.81-1.75 mg/L). A cut-off value of 1.5 for the TfR-F-Index and 0.8 for the CRP-adjusted TfR-F-Index, in patients with a CRP >5 mg/L, was used. RESULTS: All Binet A patients had normal sTfR values (1.34+/-0.2 mg/L), TfR-F-Index (0.67+/-0.2) and a CRP-adjusted TfR-F-Index. In Binet B and C, sTfR and the TfR-F-Index were significantly increased compared to Binet A patients (p<0.0001). The differences between Binet B and C were not significant. sTfR was  increased in 85%, TfR-F-Index in 46% and the CRP-adjusted TfR-F-Index in 54% of the Binet B patients, in Binet C patients, 80%, 50% and 60% showed increases, respectively. sTfR and the TfR-F-Index decreased or even normalized following successful treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Similar to sTfR, the TfR-F-Index is strongly associated with tumor burden in patients with CLL. Thus, these parameters do not allow for a reliable diagnosis of ID in this patient group."
827	"Though B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is known to be a heterogeneous disease, only recently has the familial component of CLL been more thoroughly investigated. This entity is seen in approximately 5%-10% of all patients with CLL and can be associated with earlier age of diagnosis, higher female prevalence, and increased incidence of other lymphoproliferative disorders (LPDs), such as non-Hodgkin lymphoma and the more recently described monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis CLL in family members. The prognostic parameters and clinical course of familial CLL is not clearly distinguishable from that of sporadic disease. In addition, it is not clear that the treatment responses for progressive disease has any discernible difference in familial versus sporadic CLL. The genetic etiology of CLL is unknown, and early work on familial CLL has not yet uncovered any obvious gene or group of genes that can be clearly related  to the pathophysiology of CLL. However, the detailed genetic study of familial CLL is likely to be critical in uncovering relevant genes. At present it is best  to indicate to concerned CLL patients that their relatives are at relatively low  risk of developing CLL or other LPDs."
828	"Stem cell transplantation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an evolving field. Younger patients with high-risk disease might derive the greatest benefit  from this approach and the availability of reduced-intensity conditioning regimens has made allogeneic stem cell transplantation more relevant to patients  with CLL. Patient selection, timing of transplantation, and method of conditioning, stem cell delivery and immunosuppression appear to influence outcomes. We collect and review the available data to assist clinical decision-making in this field."
829	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with high-risk cytogenetic features such as del(17p13) have limited treatment options and decreased overall  survival. Dysfunction of p53 leads to resistance to fludarabine-based therapies.  Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CDKi) are a novel class of agents that induce apoptosis in CLL cells independent of p53 mutational status. The synthetic flavone flavopiridol demonstrated promising in vitro activity in CLL. In initial  phase I studies using a continuous infusion dosing schedule in a variety of malignancies, no clinical activity was observed. Detailed pharmacokinetic modeling led to the development of a novel dosing schedule designed to achieve target drug concentrations in vivo. In phase I testing, this dosing schedule resulted in acute tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) as the dose-limiting toxicity. With  the implementation of a standardized protocol to prevent severe TLS, flavopiridol was administered safely, and responses were observed in heavily pretreated, fludarabine-refractory patients, cytogenetically high-risk patients, and patients with bulky lymphadenopathy. In a pharmacokinetic analysis, flavopiridol area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) correlated with clinical response and cytokine release syndrome. Phase II studies are under way with encouraging preliminary results. Flavopiridol is currently under active investigation in combination with other agents and as a means to eradicate minimal residual disease in patients following cytoreductive chemotherapy. Several other investigational CDKi in preclinical and early clinical development are briefly discussed in this review."
830	"BACKGROUND: Bendamustine is a mechlorethamine derivative with a purine-like benzimidazole ring, which may enhance its clinical efficacy. Bendamustine was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in March 2008 and for the treatment of rituximab-refractory, indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in October 2008. OBJECTIVE: This article reviews the pharmacologic and pharmacodynamic properties  of bendamustine, together with data on efficacy and toxicity from trials investigating the use of bendamustine for the treatment of various hematologic malignancies, including CLL, NHL, and multiple myeloma (MM). METHODS: MEDLINE and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts (1970-April 15, 2009) were searched using the terms bendamustine, bendamustin, Treanda, Ribomustin, SDX-105, IMET-3393, and Cytostasan. References from relevant articles were also reviewed for additional sources and material. The databases of the American Society of Hematology (2004-2008) and the American Society of Clinical Oncology (1995-2008) were searched for relevant abstracts. RESULTS: Bendamustine is a mechlorethamine derivative with structural similarity  to chlorambucil and other drugs from the nitrogen mustard class, as well as a benzimidazole ring, which may act as an antagonist to purines and amino acids. It has good oral bioavailability but has been studied almost exclusively in the intravenous formulation. It undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism by cytochrome P450 1A2 to active metabolites gamma-hydroxy bendamustine and N-desmethyl-bendamustine, but clinical activity appears to be associated primarily with the parent compound. The t(1/2) of bendamustine is approximately 40 minutes. While bendamustine has 2 moieties with possible antitumor effect, it  is unclear to what extent the benzimidazole ring enhances the efficacy of the drug. Numerous studies including in vitro assays have reported, however, that bendamustine has little cross-resistance with other alkylating agents and remains active even in extensively pretreated patients. FDA approval for use in CLL was based on findings from a randomized, open-label, Phase III study comparing bendamustine with chlorambucil as single-agent therapy in treatmentnaive patients with CLL (Binet stage B or C). Bendamustine was administered intravenously at a dose of 100 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2, while chlorambucil was administered orally at  0.8 mg/kg daily, both over 4-week cycles for up to 6 cycles. At interim analysis  (the data used for FDA approval), bendamustine was associated with a greater overall response (68% vs 39%; P < 0.001), median progression-free survival (21.7  vs 9.3 months; P < 0.001) and median duration of remission (18.9 vs 6.1 months; P < 0.001) compared with chlorambucil. FDA approval for rituximabrefractory, indolent B-cell NHL followed a Phase III, open-label, single-arm study evaluating bendamustine monotherapy in patients who did not respond to rituximab or had progressive disease within 6 months of rituximab therapy. Bendamustine 120 mg/m(2) was administered intravenously on days 1 and 2 of a 21-day cycle for up to 8 cycles. At interim analysis, the overall response rate was 84%, including 29% complete response. The median progression-free survival was 9.7 months. The efficacy of bendamustine has also been reported in the treatment of MM in clinical studies, and bendamustine has been approved in Europe for treating MM, NHL, CLL, breast cancer, and Hodgkin lymphoma. Dose-limiting toxicity is primarily hematologic. Treatment-associated infections have been reported in some studies; however, nonhematologic adverse events have rarely been dose limiting. The most common nonhematologic adverse events include fatigue, nausea, xerostomia, and pyrexia. CONCLUSIONS: Bendamustine is a mechlorethamine derivative with a purine-like benzimidazole ring, which may enhance its clinical efficacy. It has been approved in the United States for the treatment of CLL and rituximab-refractory, indolent  B-cell NHL. It has been approved in Europe for use in other malignancies, and clinical studies have reported activity in MM."
831	"INTRODUCTION: There are various approaches to the treatment of cutaneous tumors;  one of them is treatment with imiquimod, a synthetic toll-like receptor agonist with a low molecular weight that offers a topical, noninvasive, and non-surgical  therapeutic option. The main objective of our study was to provide data on 89 patients who used a 5% imiquimod cream for the treatment of cutaneous tumors at the Cutaneous Oncology Group of the Dermatology Department of Hospital das Clinicas from 2003 to 2008. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Here, we present our experience in the treatment of 123 cutaneous tumors of various types, including basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), Bowen's disease, erythroplasia of Queyrat, Paget's disease, and trichoepithelioma, with 5% imiquimod cream from 2003 to 2008 in the Cutaneous Oncology Group of the Dermatology Department of Hospital das Clinicas. Patients were divided into two separate groups according to their diagnosis and comorbidities; these comorbidities included epidermodysplasia verruciformis, xeroderma pigmentosum, albinism, basal cell nevus syndrome, Brooke-Spiegler syndrome, HIV, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, B-cell lymphoma, and kidney transplantation. Treatment duration, response to imiquimod, follow-up, recurrence, and local and systemic reactions associated with use of the drug were analyzed. Epidemiological data were obtained and cure rates were calculated. RESULTS: The ratio of women to men was 1.28:1, and the mean age was 63.1 years. Tumors were located mainly on the face, back, trunk, and legs. For patients with  comorbidities, the overall cure rate was 38%. These specific patients demonstrated cure rates of 83.5% for superficial BCC and 50% for Bowen's disease. Aggressive BCC and superficial and nodular BCC did not present a good response to treatment. Trichoepitheliomas and nodular BCC showed a partial response, and erythroplasia of Queyrat showed a complete response. For patients without comorbidities, the overall cure rate was 73%. For these patients, the cure rates  were 85.7% for superficial and nodular BCC, 88% for superficial BCC, 57% for Bowen's disease, 50% for nodular BCC, and 50% for aggressive BCC. One SCC lesion  demonstrated a complete response, and tumors caused by Paget's disease and erythroplasia of Queyrat presented a partial response. None of the tumors considered as clinically cured recurred. Thirty-seven lesions demonstrated no response to imiquimod. Having a cutaneous comorbidity, high-risk tumors such as mixed aggressive BCC (sclerodermiform or micronodular), nodular BCC, or Bowen's disease, and presenting no local reaction to imiquimod were considered as risk factors for a worse prognosis. We demonstrate that patients with no response to imiquimod, even when they demonstrated no local reaction, can undergo another cycle of six weeks of imiquimod treatment and show a complete response. The healing pattern led to good cosmetic outcomes, and the side effects were tolerable. CONCLUSIONS: Our experience confirms imiquimod as an effective treatment option for several types of cutaneous tumors, especially in patients without the cutaneous comorbidities cited above and with low-risk tumors. Imiquimod has a relatively low cost compared to other therapeutic options and can be delivered via ambulatory care to patients with surgery contraindications, and its side effects are tolerable."
832	"Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) are  recognized complications of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) that can be life-threatening if not managed appropriately. Conventional therapies for these autoimmune disorders, such as corticosteroids, splenectomy, and immunosuppressive agents, may not induce complete resolution in all patients, and relapses are common. In recent years, monoclonal antibodies such as alemtuzumab and rituximab, already used successfully for the management of lymphoproliferative disorders, have been shown to be effective in the treatment of a range of autoimmune disorders. The potent antitumor activity of alemtuzumab, in combination with its  profound immunosuppressive activity, prompted investigation of its use in patients with severe CLL-related AIHA and ITP. Results from a range of reports confirm the efficacy of alemtuzumab for the treatment of severe, CLL-related autoimmune cytopenias that have failed to respond to conventional therapies and may even be rituximab-refractory."
833	"As new therapeutic approaches have improved responses and outcomes in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the scientific community focuses now on diagnostic procedures and definitions of response in CLL. The use of monoclonal antibodies in particular has made it possible to treat CLL more effectively. The success of these new therapeutic tools can be traced back to the eradication of detectable disease in a significant number of patients. Therefore, the evaluation of minimal residual disease has become an important end point within clinical trials. This article describes various methods of assessing minimal residual disease and presents data demonstrating that new therapeutic approaches can eliminate residual malignant cells at the highest levels of sensitivity currently available. Although initial evidence suggests that the use  of alemtuzumab induces a survival benefit when used in the consolidation setting, important safety issues remain to be resolved before this approach can be introduced in routine practice."
834	"Chronic lymphoid leukemias include well defined mature B-cell and T-cell neoplasms with diverse natural history and specific morphological, immunophenotypic and molecular characteristics. The most common adult leukemia in the Western world is chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Rarer indolent lymphoid  leukemias include prolymphocytic leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, large granular lymphocyte leukemia and T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. Recently, several new agents have been explored and have shown promise in CLL treatment. Novel therapies are being evaluated both in pre-clinical studies and in early clinical trials. These  treatments include new purine nucleoside analogs, antisense oligonucleotides, agents targeting the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family of proteins, receptors involved in mediation of survival signals from the microenvironment, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, protein kinase C inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, immunomodulating drugs, new monoclonal antibodies and other agents. At present, available therapies are only partially efficient and there is an obvious need to  develop better strategies and new, more specific and active drugs. This review will focus on agents currently being explored in preclinical studies and in early clinical trials."
835	"Recombinant immunotoxins are proteins composed of fragments of monoclonal antibodies fused to truncated protein toxins. No agents of this class are approved yet for medical use, although a related molecule, denileukin diftitox, composed of interleukin-2 fused to truncated diphtheria toxin, is approved for relapsed/refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Recombinant immunotoxins which have been tested in patients with chemotherapy-pretreated hematologic malignancies include LMB-2 (anti-CD25), BL22 (CAT-3888, anti-CD22) and HA22 (CAT-8015, anti-CD22), each containing an Fv fragment fused to truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin. Major responses were observed with LMB-2 in adult T-cell leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, and hairy cell leukemia (HCL). BL22 resulted in a high complete remission rate in patients with HCL, particularly those without excessive tumor burden. HA22, an improved version of BL22 with higher affinity to CD22, is now undergoing phase I testing in HCL, CLL, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and  pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia."
836	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a very common hematological malignancy. Although several alterations in different loci have been identified and established as prognostic factors the pathogenetic cascade remains obscure. Here we give an account on a 71-year-old man with B-CLL and a translocation t(6;9) in his diagnostic bone marrow. Subsequent chromosome analysis of his blood lymphocytes revealed a constitutional karyotype 46,XY,t(6;9) (p12;p24) that has not been previously reported. Seeking for gene disruption correlated with the B-CLL we precisely mapped both breakpoints by fluorescence in situ hybridization  (FISH) analysis with chromosome-specific bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones and their long-range polymerase chain reaction (LRPCR) subfragments. An 11-kb LRPCR subfragment derived from RP11-399A15 was found to span the breakpoint at 6p12.1. FISH analysis with a 12-kb LRPCR fragment derived from RP11-147I11 which overlaps with RP11-110M16 as well as with a cDNA for DMRT2 (doublesex and mab-3 related transcription factor 2) maps the 9p24.3 breakpoint maximum 10 kb upstream from DMRT2. In silico analysis of the transcripts within the vicinity of the breakpoints revealed that the translocation does not disrupt any known genes  but could affect the putative DMRT2 promoter. Long range effects on gene expression cannot be excluded so far."
837	"BACKGROUND AIMS: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an indolent disease. It is currently recommended that patients with CLL stages 0 and I follow a watchful waiting strategy. These patients are, therefore, a suitable group for testing immunotherapeutic approaches to avoid problems of immunosuppression as a result of disease progression and chemotherapy. In this study, we investigated the expression of SEMG-1 in early CLL to determine the suitability of SEMG-1 as a target for further development of tumor vaccines for early CLL. METHODS: A combination of reverse transcriptase (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and immunocytochemistry was used to evaluate the expression of SEMG-1 in early CLL. The results were correlated with Zap 70 expression. Recombinant SEMG-1 protein was used in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to determine the presence of SEMG-1 antibodies (Ab) in serum from these patients. RESULTS: The SEMG-1 gene was expressed in 19/41 (46%) patients with early CLL. Gene expression was associated with protein synthesis in CLL cells. Protein expression, however, was heterogeneous within individual patients. Only transcripts encoding the SEMG-1(50) variant and not SEMG-1(43) were detected. SEMG-1(50) was expressed irrespective of the Zap 70 status. High-titer SEMG-1 IgG but not IgM Ab were detected in some of these patients, suggesting that SEMG-1-reactive immune responses are intact within the immune repertoire of early CLL patients. CONCLUSIONS: SEMG-1 is expressed in nearly half of patients with early CLL and may be a target for further investigations into its use for immunotherapy of early CLL."
838	"Diagnosis of two distinct malignant entities existing concurrently and at the same location (synchronous malignancy) by fine- needle aspiration (FNA) is unusual but may occur. Small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SLL/CLL) in particular is associated with an increased incidence of secondary tumor, likely due to associated immunodeficiency. Co-occurrence of some carcinomas such as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), may show especially aggressive  behavior. A 57-year-old Caucasian male presented with recurrent upper extremity lymphedema and diffuse lymphadenopathy of the axillary and cervical regions. FNA  of a large cervical lymph node was diagnostic for both atypical lymphocytic proliferation and SCC. Flow cytometric analysis showed the atypical lymphocytic proliferation to be positive for CD5, CD23, CD19, CD20, HLA-DR, CD38, and the population was kappa light chain restricted. These cells were negative for CD-10  and FMC-7 antigens, suggesting a phenotype of B-cell SLL/CLL. We report a rare occurrence of metastatic SCC to a lymph node infiltrated by SLL/CLL. The diagnosis was achieved by a combination of cytomorphologic examination of FNA smears, immunohistochemical staining of cell block material, and flow cytometry on the sample obtained by FNA. To the best of our knowledge, only three cases of  SCC metastasis to SLL/CLL diagnosed by FNA have been reported in the English literature. Though rare, awareness of such a possibility and careful cytological  examination under the appropriate clinical conditions is warranted."
839	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a haematopoetic neoplasm caused primarily by defects in apoptosis mechanisms and complicated by progressive marrow failure, immunosupression and increased resistance to chemotherapy. The CD40-CD40 ligand (CD40L) interaction has been shown to significantly increase antigen presentation in normal and malignant B-cells and it is a powerful regulator of cell survival.  Bcl-2 expression is common in CLL and is associated with decreased overall survival. Our objective was to asses CD40 ligand (CD154) and Bcl-2 expressions and their correlation with clinical and laboratory features in CLL patients. This study was conducted on 40 subjects, including 10 healthy volunteers as the control group and 30 patients presented with de novo chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), all of them were subjected to thorough history taking, full clinical examinations, routine laboratory investigations and flowcytometric assessment of  CD40L and Bcl-2 on lymphocytes. There was a highly significant increase in TLC, absolute lymphocytic count, serum LDH, B2-microglobulin and Bcl-2 expression (P<0.001); there was a significant increase in CD40L expression (P<0.05); whereas there was a highly significant decrease in hemoglobin concentration and platelets count between the study group (P<0.001). There was no significant difference as regard direct Coombs' test between both groups. There was no significant relation between CD154 expression and clinical findings, Rai staging system and other laboratory parameters. CD40L expression is increased with staging of Modified Rai staging system but not reaching the significant level. There was no significant correlation between CD154 expression and some of clinical and laboratory parameters, whereas there was only significantly negative correlation between Bcl-2 expression and both haemoglobin concentration and platelets count (P<0.001). Combination of Bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide with conventional chemotherapeutic drugs may enhance the cytotoxicity of these drugs and induces apoptosis."
841	"In the present study we investigated in vivo therapeutic potential of DCs vaccines in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). On the day 0 the SCID mice were intraperitoneally inoculated with peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of B-CLL patients at a dose of 10-30 x 10(6) and left untreated (controls) or i.p. injected on the day 7 with 0.2 - 14.0 x 10(6) dendritic cells. DCs were generated in vitro from peripheral blood monocytes of B-CLL donors (autologous DCs) or healthy donors (allogeneic cells) and pulsed with B-CLL antigens. On the  day 14, the effect of implanted cells interactions was evaluated by a counting of CD19+CD5+ human leukemic cells and human T cells in the peritoneal fluid of mice. We found, that mean numbers of CD19+CD5+ leukemic cells as well as human T cells  were lowered in peritoneal fluid of mice treated with allogeneic APCs. However, we did not observe similar effects with autologous DCs."
844	"Efforts to develop curative treatment strategies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in recent years have focused on allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT). The crucial anti-leukemic principle of alloSCT in CLL appears to be the immune-mediated anti-host activities conferred with the graft (graft-versus-leukemia effects, GVL). Evidence for GVL in CLL is provided by studies analyzing the kinetics of minimal residual disease on response to immune  modulation after transplantation, suggesting that GVL can result in complete and  durable suppression of the leukemic clone. AlloSCT from matched related or unrelated donors can overcome the treatment resistance of poor-risk CLL, ie, purine analogue refractory disease and CLL with del 17p-. Even with reduced-intensity conditioning, alloSCT in CLL is associated with significant mortality and morbidity due to graft-versus-host disease, which has to be weighed against the risk of the disease when defining the indication for transplantation. Therefore, it can be regarded as a reasonable treatment option only for eligible  patients who fulfill accepted criteria for poor-risk disease. If alloSCT is considered, it should be performed before CLL has advanced to a status of complete refractoriness to assure an optimum chance for a successful outcome. Prospective trials are underway to prove whether allo-SCT can indeed change the natural history of poor-risk CLL."
845	"The last decade has produced rapid progress in the management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Fludarabine, bendamustine and two monoclonal antibodies, alemtuzumab and rituximab, have been approved by the European and/or  American regulatory agencies. Several, novel monoclonal antibodies targeting CD20, CD23 or CD40, as well as drugs designed to interfere with proteins regulating the cell cycle, apoptotic machinery, or leukemic microenvironment (eg, flavopiridol, oblimersen, or lenalidomide), are currently being tested in clinical trials. Furthermore, the increased experience with reduced-intensity allogeneic progenitor cell transplantation allows offering this option to physically fit patients. In addition, new prognostic markers that may influence therapeutic decisions have been identified. This review attempts to summarize the current use of these different modalities in CLL therapy."
847	"The clinical course of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is heterogeneous, with some patients experiencing rapid disease progression and others living for decades without requiring treatment. Clinical features and molecular/biologic factors such as ZAP-70, immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGHV) gene mutation status, and cytogenetic abnormalities on fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) have been found to be robust predictors of treatment-free survival and overall survival among newly diagnosed patients. Beyond their widely recognized value for providing insight into disease biology and utility for stratifying patient risk in clinical trials, these prognostic tools play an important role in the current counseling and management of patients with CLL. Recent studies have focused on how to combine the results of multiple prognostic  assays into an integrated risk stratification system and explored how these characteristics influence response to treatment. This chapter reviews the available tools to stratify patient risk and discusses how these tools can be used in routine clinical practice to individualize patient counseling, guide the  frequency of follow-up, and inform treatment selection."
849	"Myelolipoma is a rare benign tumor composed of mature adipose tissue and normal hematopoietic elements. Extra-adrenal myelolipomas are extremely rare, with approximately 50% of cases occurring in the presacral region. We report a case of an 85 year old woman who presented with small bowel obstruction relating to a pelvic mass detected on computed tomography (CT) scan. At laparotomy, a 12-cm. pre-sacral mass was resected. Histologic examination showed a myelolipoma with dense lymphoid aggregates. On immunostains, the lymphoid aggregates showed positivity for CD20, CD5, and CD23, consistent with small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SLL/CLL). Molecular evaluation confirmed the presence of a clonal B-cell lymphocytic proliferation that did not harbor BCL-2 or BCL-1 gene rearrangements. This case represents the first report of a myelolipoma involved by a non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The unique combination of these findings raises questions about the relationship between the two observed entities. The likeliest scenario is that an unusual benign tumor (myelolipoma) was colonized by a relatively common systemic hematopoietic neoplasm SLL/CLL, producing a collision tumor."
850	"The term Richter syndrome (RS) describes the transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia into a high-grade lymphoma. RS occurs in 3% to 10% of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases, and its onset is often characterized by the abrupt development of systemic symptoms (eg, fever in the absence of infection, night sweats, and weight loss), progressive lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly. RS frequently arises in the lymph nodes or bone marrow, and rarely presents with extranodal involvement, which includes the gastrointestinal  tract, eye, testis, central nervous system, lung, kidney, and skin. We review the literature regarding the clinical course and treatment of RS, present a patient with primary cutaneous RS, and discuss the prognostic implications."
851	"Deletions of chromosome 6q are found in many types of cancer, including melanoma, prostate cancer, fibroadenomas, and carcinoma of breast and other sites. Chromosome 6q deletions are also commonly found in lymphoid malignancies such as  acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL), multiple myeloma (MM), mantle zone lymphoma (MZL), and Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM). These deletions may appear to be terminal or interstitial. In childhood B- and T-cell ALL a deletion of 6q is the  hallmark of a neutral prognosis; however, it may be cytogenetically obscure or cryptic, requiring interphase FISH analysis. In adult ALL it indicates a favorable prognosis, but in CLL, B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), WM, and MM it has a poor prognosis. Since the deletion of 6q has prognostic implications  and may be used to monitor residual disease, FISH analysis remains a valuable tool in treatment of these disorders. Using our three-color FISH probe cocktail for 6 centromere, 6q21 and 6q23, we began a validation series. We report the results of the first three patients in our laboratory with deletions of 6q in lymphoid malignancies using this cocktail."
852	"Chromosome gains and losses used for risk stratification in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are commonly assessed by multiprobe fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies. We designed and validated a customized array-comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) platform as a clinical assay for CLL genomic profiling. A 60-mer, 44,000-probe oligonucleotide array with a 50-kb  average spatial resolution was augmented with high-density probe tiling at loci that are frequently aberrant in CLL. Aberrations identified by aCGH were compared with those identified by a FISH panel, including locus-specific probes to ATM (11q22.3), the centromeric region of chromosome 12 (12p11.1-q11), D13S319 (13q14.3), LAMP1 (13q34), and TP53 (17p13.1). In 100 CLL samples, aCGH/FISH concordance was seen for 89% of FISH-called aberrations at the ATM (n=18), D13S319 (n=42), LAMP (n=12), and TP53 (n=22) loci and for chromosome 12 (n=14). Eighty-four percentage of FISH/aCGH discordant calls were in samples either at or below the limit of aCGH sensitivity (10% to 25% FISH aberration-containing cells). Therefore, aCGH profiling is a feasible routine clinical test with comparable results to multiprobe FISH studies; however, it may be less sensitive  than FISH in cases with low-level aberrations. Further, a customized array design can provide comprehensive genomic profiling with additional accuracy in both identifying and defining the extent of small aberrations at target loci."
853	"Background. MicroRNAs are a type of small noncoding RNA molecules that have been  shown to control gene expression in eukaryotes. Aberrant expression and alteration of miRNAs may be responsible for human diseases including cancer. An miR16-1 (C > T) + 7 gene mutation has been previously found in familial chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients, one of which reported a family history of breast cancer. miR16-1 regulates the expression of bcl-2, which is important in retinoblastoma, and is located in a genomic region that is frequently lost in nasopharyngeal and hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Therefore, miR16-1 may be potentially important in the etiology of several solid tumors. To understand the  power of the miR16-1 (C > T) + 7 mutation as a prognostic and diagnostic risk factor, we investigated the mutation in patients with seven different types of cancer including 188 with breast, 102 with ovarian, and 22 nasopharyngeal carcinomas, 96 HCC, 872 chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), 39 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and 46 retinoblastoma cases from three different ethnic groups and of hereditary and sporadic etiology. Methods. 5'Nuclease TaqMan SNP genotyping assay was used to detect the miR16-1 gene C > T substitution. Results. The miR16-1 (C > T) + 7 substitution was not detected in any of the groups studied. Conclusions. Considering the large scale of our study, the representation of different ethnicities and levels of hereditary risk, we conclude that the miR-16-1 (C > T) + 7 mutation is not a good diagnostic or prognostic indicator of risk for the cancers tested."
854	"Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is currently being investigated as a therapeutic agent for a variety of malignancies, as it triggers apoptosis specifically in transformed cells. However, TRAIL use as a stand alone therapeutic is hampered by the fact that many primary tumor cells are resistant to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. Here, we investigated the extent to which  pretreatment of TRAIL-resistant primary B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells with histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis) could render them susceptible to killing by TRAIL. We found that HDAC inhibition in B-CLL cells led to increased TRAIL receptor expression, increased caspase activation, decreased expression of antiapoptotic regulators such as Bcl-2, and ultimately, enhanced TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Importantly, untransformed peripheral blood mononuclear  cells remained largely resistant to TRAIL, even in the presence of HDACis. These  results suggest that combination therapies using HDAC inhibition and TRAIL could  prove beneficial for the treatment of B-CLL."
855	"Strongyloides stercoralis affects over 100 million people worldwide. Those people most susceptible to infection are those with an immunocompromising condition, such as cancer or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Local disease may spread throughout the body of the host, causing a condition termed disseminated strongyloidiasis. Standard treatment for Strongyloides stercoralis infection is oral ivermectin. We describe a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia diagnosed with disseminated strongyloidiasis two weeks after initial presentation. After repeated dosing of oral ivermectin with no clinical response, serum and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of ivermectin were measured  to assess absorption. The peak serum concentration of 49.3 ng/mL correlated with  a CSF concentration of 0.14 ng/mL. Despite these concentrations, the patient eventually succumbed to multi-system organ failure. We discuss the reasons for treatment failure and explore the utility of measuring ivermectin concentrations."
856	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a heterogeneous hematologic malignancy caused by a clonally expanded B-cell population that recirculates between the blood and tissues. Described is the case of an 81-year-old female B-CLL patient with aberrant expression of a T-cell-associated antigen, CD8, on CD19+ B-CLL cells. Despite chlorambucil therapy and a subsequent salvage regimen, the patient rapidly entered progressive disease and died 9 months later. Flow cytometric immunophenotyping of the B-CLL cells for a number of antigens ruled out a mixed-lineage disorder. The implications of CD8 expression in B-CLL are discussed, and its expression in this case probably reflects an aberrant lineage  infidelity. CD8 expression might be considered as a marker of aggressive disease."
861	"NAD(P)H:quinoneoxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) inhibits some cancers and increases p53 and apoptosis in cells. Due to an inactivating polymorphism, 10% of humans have no NQO1 activity. A case:control study suggested that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients may have an increased incidence of the NQO1 null genotype compared with controls. NQO1 genotype did not correlate with various CLL prognostic factors, but we observed a trend toward lower drug response in patients with the NQO1 null genotype. Inhibiting NQO1 activity decreased p53 levels and drug induced apoptosis in CLL cells. These results raise the possibility that the NQO1 polymorphism may be a risk factor for CLL and a predictor of response to chemotherapy."
862	"In a series of 84 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients we sought to establish whether BAFF (B-cell activating factor of the TNF family) circulating levels correlated with clinical characteristics of disease. BAFF serum levels were significantly higher in 20 healthy controls (i.e., median 695 ng/mL, range 389-1040) in comparison to the whole population of CLL patients (median 376, range 93-8914; P<0.0001). After setting a cut-off at the median value observed in healthy controls (i.e., 695 ng/mL) we found that 6 out of 15 (40%) patients with  familial CLL had increased BAFF levels while the same occurred only in 5 out of 64 (7.2%) patients with sporadic CLL (P=0.0007). No significant difference in age (P=0.82), sex (P=0.97), Binet clinical stage (P=0.20), incidence of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) or immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) (P=0.47), mutational status of IgVH (P=1.00), CD38 (P=0.34) and ZAP-70 expression (P=0.16) could be detected between patients with sporadic and familial CLL, respectively. The only  feature characterizing familial CLL patients was a higher serum BAFF level (sporadic CLL 336 ng/mL, range 93-925; familial CLL 601 ng/mL, range 138-8914; P=0.002). Our data suggest that BAFF levels are elevated in patients with familial CLL. The small cohort of patients used implies that a larger study is needed to reinforce the observation."
863	"Gastrointestinal involvement is a rare event in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and is usually associated to lymphomatous transformation. However, in autopsy studies the reported incidence of microscopic infiltration can reach up to 50% of cases. Seven B-CLL patients in advanced stage/progressive disease were evaluated by colonoscopy because of continuous diarrhea. Five out of seven patients (71%) presented histological evidence of colonic infiltration. Persistent diarrhea in patients with progressive/advanced B-CLL can be a clinical sign of intestinal infiltration and justifies endoscopic  examinations."
864	"The poor prognosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients with del (17p)  is well established. We analyzed whether mutation of TP53 on the remaining allele adds to the poor prognosis or whether even TP53 mutation alone may be an adverse  prognostic factor. We analyzed TP53 mutations in 193 CLL patients by denaturing high performance liquid chromatography in combination with direct DNA sequencing  and a TP53 resequencing research microarray. Mutations were correlated to chromosomal aberrations defined by interphase fluorescent in situ hybridization and chromosome banding analyses and to the clinical course of patients. TP53 mutations were detected in 13.5% (26 of 193) of samples, whereas the incidence of del (17p) was 9.3% (18 of 193). TP53 mutations were significantly associated with del (17p) (concordance 94%, P<0.001) and complex cytogenetic abnormalities (concordance 50%, P<0.001). Among 147 patients whose clinical data were available, patients with TP53 abnormalities (n=20) had a significantly decreased  time to treatment compared to patients without TP53 aberration (P<0.001). Median  time to treatment was short in patients with isolated TP53 mutation (n=6, 2.0 months) and in those with del (17p) (n=14, 21.3 months) as compared to patients without TP53 aberration (n=127, 64.9 months, P<0.001). In multivariate Cox regression analysis, VH status, TP53 mutations and also isolated TP53 mutations independently predicted rapid disease progression."
865	"Chemokines induce a number of intracellular signaling pathways by activating second messengers (e.g. calcium) and phosphorylation cascades in order to mediate a myriad of functions including cell migration, survival and proliferation. Although there is some degree of overlap in chemokine receptor-mediated pathway activation, different chemokines will often elicit distinct signaling events. Factors such as cell type, receptor expression levels, G protein availability, and disease state will also influence the signaling response from chemokine-induced receptor activation. Improvements in mass spectrometry, enrichment strategies, and database search programs for identifying phosphopeptides have made phosphoproteomics an accessible biological tool for studying chemokine-induced phosphorylation cascades. Although signaling pathways  involved in chemokine-mediated migration have been fairly well characterized, less is known regarding other signaling cascades elicited by chemokines (e.g. to  induce proliferation) or the potential for distinct pathway activation in a disease state such as cancer. CXCL12(SDF-1)/CXCR4 signaling has been shown to play an important role in the survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells, and thus provides a good system for exploring chemokine signaling, particularly in the interest of survival pathway activation. In this chapter, we  describe the use of immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) phosphopeptide enrichment followed by reversed-phase liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis for exploring CXCL12-mediated signaling in human CLL patient cells."
866	"BACKGROUND: A 42-year-old previously healthy man was referred to hospital with an 8-week history of fevers, night sweats, fatigue, and unintentional weight loss. There was no past history of medical illness or any medication use. Physical examination was unremarkable. On urinalysis, the patient had hematuria (grade 4+) and proteinuria (grade 4+). INVESTIGATIONS: Urine phase-contrast microscopy, full blood count, renal function tests, 24-h urine collection for protein, serum immune electrophoresis, renal biopsies, phase-contrast microscopy, serological tests for antinuclear antibodies, extractable nuclear antigens, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies,  hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV, cryoglobulin test, complement testing, flow cytometry of the peripheral blood, and bone marrow biopsy. DIAGNOSIS: Monoclonal gammopathy and a glomerulopathy, with microtubular deposits, associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. MANAGEMENT: Treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide did not improve proteinuria, although lymphocyte count returned to normal. The patient did not tolerate high-dose cyclophosphamide and was started on rituximab. His proteinuria completely resolved and there was complete disappearance of the microtubules."
867	"Human leukocyte antigen - G (HLA-G) is a non-classical HLA class I antigen with restricted distribution in normal tissues. Ectopic HLA-G expression observed at some pathological circumstances as malignant transformation might be triggered by epigenetic modifications such as DNA demethylation. Recently it was demonstrated  that DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-2 - deoxycytidine (AdC) induces/enhances HLA-G transcription in many leukemia cell lines of different origin. Here we investigated the effect of AdC on HLA-G expression in malignant hematopoetic cells isolated from patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). We detected HLA-G expression in untreated cells from some patients. Nevertheless treatment with 5-aza-2 - deoxycytidine enhanced HLA-G transcription and concomitantly HLA-G protein synthesis in some leukemia cells."
868	"The results of repeated interphase fluorescence in-situ hybridization (I-FISH, FISH) examination of 97 CLL patients and correlation of these findings with IgVH  hypermutation status, ZAP-70 and CD38 expression are presented. The appearance of new, FISH-detectable, genomic aberrations during disease course, described as clonal evolution (CE), was observed in 26% of patients. The most frequent newly acquired cytogenetic abnormality was 13q deletion in 64% (16/25). In contrast to  earlier studies, there was no correlation found between CE and either one of single negative prognostic factors (unmutated IgVH; CD38 positivity; ZAP-70 positivity). However, the combination of all three negative factors correlated with CE highly significantly (p=0.005) and moreover, also with a shift from lower to higher FISH risk category (p=0.010). As the prognostic data were known in all  patients, this study represents the complete insight on the association of CE and other risk parameters in CLL."
869	"The most recent studies emphasize a link between B-cell proliferation in vivo and clinical outcome of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). The expression of cyclin D2 in B-CLL cells isolated from the peripheral blood of 27 untreated patients in relation to the apoptosis ratio both before and 72 h after culture in the absence of growth factors was analyzed by immunocytochemistry. The significant associations between cell death in culture and both cyclin D2 expression in freshly isolated cells and the rate of its decrement in culture found in this study confirm the special role of cyclin D2 in enhancing the longevity of these cells in vivo. As cyclin D2 is inducible in the early G1 phase, its increased expression might also reflect the activation of cells attempting to replicate in vivo. Furthermore, the finding that B-CLL progression  positively correlates with the gradual increase in the proportion of apoptotic B  lymphocytes in culture seems to support the notion of cells striving to undergo division in the absence of growth factors. All together, these results indicate the possibility that cyclin D2+ cells represent a pool of leukemic cells with the potential to enter the dividing compartment."
870	"BACKGROUND: The amount of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH), a pivotal  enzyme for the biosynthesis of the guanosine tri-phosphate (GTP), is frequently increased in tumor cells. The anti-viral agent ribavirin and the immunosuppressant mycophenolic acid (MPA) are potent inhibitors of IMPDH. We recently showed that IMPDH inhibition led to a necrotic signal requiring the activation of Cdc42. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Herein, we strengthened the essential role played by this small GTPase in the necrotic signal by silencing Cdc42 and by the ectopic expression of a constitutive active mutant of Cdc42. Since resistance to apoptosis is an essential step for the tumorigenesis process, we next examined the effect of the MPA-mediated necrotic signal on different tumor cells demonstrating various mechanisms of resistance to apoptosis (Bcl2-, HSP70-, Lyn-, BCR-ABL-overexpressing cells). All tested cells remained sensitive to MPA-mediated necrotic signal. Furthermore, inhibition of IMPDH activity in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia cells was significantly more efficient at eliminating malignant cells than apoptotic inducers. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: These findings indicate that necrosis and apoptosis are split signals that share few if any common hub of signaling. In addition, the necrotic signaling pathway induced by depletion of the cellular amount of GTP/GDP would be of great interest to eliminate apoptotic-resistant tumor cells."
872	"THE AIMS OF THE STUDY: Evaluation of the prevalence of HBV, HCV, HDV infection in patients with chronic lymphoproliferative diseases (CL), identification of the most involved viral genotypes, correlation between viremia dynamics and CL evolution, detection of molecular mechanisms implicated in CL pathogenesis, identification of lymphocytic receptors for viral antigens and biologic markers for early diagnosis of CL.METHODS: We present preliminary results of the first year of our research grant. This is a prospective, analytic, observational study  in patients diagnosed with CL and HBV, HCV, HDV chronic infection. We included the following forms of CL: non-Hodgkin malignant lymphoma (NHL), Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We used the following commercial test kits: HCV RNA Real time PCR on a COBAS TaqMan (Roche Diagnostics) analyzer with 28 to 140.000.000 UI/ml detection range for HCV viremia, HBV DNA Real time PCR on a COBAS TaqMan (Roche Diagnostics) analyzer with 6 to 110.000.000 UI/ml detection range for HBV and the Roboscreen-RoboGene AJ kit with 10-10.000.000 replica/ml detection range for HDV. RESULTS: We have included 20 patients with CL and chronic hepatitis infection so  far. Median age of the patients was 61 years. The identified CL forms were: B cell NHL (15 cases), T cell NHL (1 case), CLL (3 cases), Hodgkin lymphoma (1 case), equally distributed in aggressive and indolent forms of CL. HCV infection  was diagnosed in 10 patients with CL, HBV infection was found in 10 patients with CL, 3 of them having co-infection HBV + HDV. In 4 patients with HBV infection viremia was over 20.000 IU/ml and the pattern of the CL was the aggressive form of the disease. The feature of the co-infection HBV + HDV was the predominance of indolent forms of CL. Among patients with HCV infection, only 3 cases were detected with viremia over 600.000 IU/ml and CL was represented by aggressive forms of the disease. We also have immunohistochemical data available in 19 cases, which seem to confirm the role of hepatitis viruses in lymphoproliferative disease etiopathogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: We ascertained an almost equally represented prevalence of HCV and HBV infection in patients with CL. The levels of HBV, HCV and HDV viremia were low in most of the cases. The most frequent form of CL was B cell NHL. We found an equal distribution between indolent and aggressive forms of NHL associated to  hepatitis virus infection."
873	"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), a condition of low platelets, can occur from primary causes, often referred to as idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, or secondary to an underlying disease, such as an autoimmune disorder or an infection. Secondary ITP can also occur with lymphoproliferative malignancies, such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), Hodgkin's disease (HD), and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). ITP associated with lymphoproliferative disorders  has the same mechanism of platelet destruction as in idiopathic or primary ITP. The current treatment paradigm for secondary ITP varies according to the underlying condition. Standard treatments for primary ITP, which include corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), anti-D, and splenectomy, are  often successful in secondary ITP. However, in most situations with secondary ITP, treatment should focus on resolving the underlying disorder before treating  the shortage of platelets, and, in the circumstances of ITP developing in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders, responses are frequently linked to remission of the primary malignancy."
874	"Primary immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) remains a diagnosis of exclusion both from nonimmune causes of thrombocytopenia and immune thrombocytopenia that develops in the context of other disorders (secondary immune thrombocytopenia). The pathobiology, natural history, and response to therapy of the diverse causes  of secondary ITP differ from each other and from primary ITP, so accurate diagnosis is essential. Immune thrombocytopenia can be secondary to medications or to a concurrent disease, such as an autoimmune condition (eg, systemic lupus erythematosus [SLE], antiphospholipid antibody syndrome [APS], immune thyroid disease, or Evans syndrome), a lymphoproliferative disease (eg, chronic lymphocytic leukemia or large granular T-lymphocyte lymphocytic leukemia), or chronic infection, eg, with Helicobacter pylori, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), or hepatitis C virus (HCV). Response to infection may generate antibodies  that cross-react with platelet antigens (HIV, H pylori) or immune complexes that  bind to platelet Fcgamma receptors (HCV), and platelet production may be impaired by infection of megakaryocyte (MK) bone marrow-dependent progenitor cells (HCV and HIV), decreased production of thrombopoietin (TPO), and splenic sequestration of platelets secondary to portal hypertension (HCV). Sudden and severe onset of thrombocytopenia has been observed in children after vaccination for measles, mumps, and rubella or natural viral infections, including Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, and varicella zoster virus. This thrombocytopenia may be caused  by cross-reacting antibodies and closely mimics acute ITP of childhood. Proper diagnosis and treatment of the underlying disorder, where necessary, play an important role in patient management."
875	"BACKGROUND: Despite the widespread use of complementary and alternative medicine  (CAM) in the general population for the treatment of chronic diseases, only few data have been published for patients with leukemia. The aim of this survey was to study systematically the use of CAM in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: A structured questionnaire was sent to 247 CLL patients of  all clinical stages and disease durations, treated and untreated. The questionnaire was returned anonymously by 87 patients (35%). RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients (44%) had used alternative treatments. No correlation was seen with educational level, gender, or previous or current chemotherapy. The most common alternative or complementary treatment modality was vitamin supplementation (26%), followed by mineral (18%), homeopathic (14%), and  mistletoe therapy (9.2%). Some 21% of patients considered their alternative treatment as being successful. Most patients reported that they decided to use CAM after conducting a personal investigation and based on the information they found, without outside recommendations (59%). The majority of the patients used patient brochures about CLL as an important source of information (54%), followed by specific lectures (34%) or the internet (32%). CONCLUSION: Our data show that patients with CLL use a wide range of CAM, among them potentially harmful methods. Rational, evidence-based medical information about the effects and risks of CAM use should be made available through patient brochures distributed by patient organizations, through information events with lectures, or via the internet."
876	"The introduction of targeted agents such as the monoclonal antibodies rituximab (anti-CD20) and alemtuzumab (anti-CD52) has brought about a remarkable change in  the therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Although it is unclear whether overall survival has been improved, the incorporation of these monoclonal antibodies into chemoimmunotherapy regimens has dramatically improved complete response rates and progression-free survival in patients with both newly-diagnosed and relapsed CLL. The success of rituximab and alemtuzumab has spurred the development of other monoclonal antibodies targeting distinct proteins and epitopes on the surface of CLL cells and an exciting array of novel  immunotherapeutics. The judicious use of these agents provides the opportunity to develop risk-adapted therapeutic strategies to optimize responses and quality of  life in patients with CLL."
878	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common human leukemia. Deregulation of the T cell leukemia/lymphoma 1 (TCL1) oncogene in mouse B cells causes a CD5-positive leukemia similar to aggressive human B-CLLs. To examine the mechanisms by which Tcl1 protein exerts oncogenic activity in B cells, we investigated the effect of Tcl1 expression on NF-kappaB and activator protein 1 (AP-1) activity. We found that Tcl1 physically interacts with c-Jun, JunB, and c-Fos and inhibits AP-1 transcriptional activity. Additionally, Tcl1 activates NF-kappaB by physically interacting with p300/CREB binding protein. We then sequenced the TCL1 gene in 600 B-CLL samples and found 2 heterozygous mutations:  T38I and R52H. Importantly, both mutants showed gain of function as AP-1 inhibitors. The results indicate that Tcl1 overexpression causes B-CLL by directly enhancing NF-kappaB activity and inhibiting AP-1."
879	"To characterize genetic contributions toward aberrant splicing of the hyaluronan  synthase 1 (HAS1) gene in multiple myeloma (MM) and Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM), we sequenced 3616 bp in HAS1 exons and introns involved in aberrant splicing, from 17 patients. We identified a total of 197 HAS1 genetic variations  (GVs), a range of 3 to 24 GVs/patient, including 87 somatic GVs acquired in splicing regions of HAS1. Nearly all newly identified inherited and somatic GVs in MM and/or WM were absent from B chronic lymphocytic leukemia, nonmalignant disease, and healthy donors. Somatic HAS1 GVs recurred in all hematopoietic cells tested, including normal CD34(+) hematopoietic progenitor cells and T cells, or as tumor-specific GVs restricted to malignant B and plasma cells. An in vitro splicing assay confirmed that HAS1 GVs direct aberrant HAS1 intronic splicing. Recurrent somatic GVs may be enriched by strong mutational selection leading to MM and/or WM."
880	"Leukemic B lymphocytes of a large group of unrelated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients express an unmutated heavy chain immunoglobulin variable (V) region encoded by IGHV1-69, IGHD3-16, and IGHJ3 with nearly identical heavy and light chain complementarity-determining region 3 sequences. The likelihood that these patients developed CLL clones with identical antibody V regions randomly is highly improbable and suggests selection by a common antigen. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) from this stereotypic subset strongly bind cytoplasmic structures in HEp-2 cells. Therefore, HEp-2 cell extracts were immunoprecipitated with recombinant stereotypic subset-specific CLL mAbs, revealing a major protein  band at approximately 225 kDa that was identified by mass spectrometry as nonmuscle myosin heavy chain IIA (MYHIIA). Reactivity of the stereotypic mAbs with MYHIIA was confirmed by Western blot and immunofluorescence colocalization with anti-MYHIIA antibody. Treatments that alter MYHIIA amounts and cytoplasmic localization resulted in a corresponding change in binding to these mAbs. The appearance of MYHIIA on the surface of cells undergoing stress or apoptosis suggests that CLL mAb may generally bind molecules exposed as a consequence of these events. Binding of CLL mAb to MYHIIA could promote the development, survival, and expansion of these leukemic cells."
882	"Understanding patterns of etiologic commonality and heterogeneity for non-Hodgkin lymphomas may illuminate lymphomagenesis. We present the first systematic comparison of risks by lymphoma subtype for a broad range of putative risk factors in a population-based case-control study, including diffuse large B-cell  (DLBCL; N = 416), follicular (N = 318), and marginal zone lymphomas (N = 106), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL; N = 133). We required at least 2 of 3 analyses to support differences in risk: (1) polytomous logistic regression, (2) homogeneity tests, or (3) dichotomous logistic regression, analyzing all 7 possible pairwise comparisons among the subtypes, corresponding to various groupings by clinical behavior, genetic features, and differentiation. Late birth order and high body mass index (>/= 35) kg/m(2)) increased risk for DLBCL alone. Autoimmune conditions increased risk for marginal zone lymphoma alone. The tumor necrosis factor G-308A polymorphism (rs1800629) increased risks for both DLBCL and marginal zone lymphoma. Exposure to certain dietary heterocyclic amines from meat consumption increased risk for CLL/SLL alone. We observed no significant risk factors for follicular lymphoma alone. These data clearly support both etiologic commonality and heterogeneity for lymphoma subtypes, suggesting that immune dysfunction is of greater etiologic importance for DLBCL and marginal zone lymphoma than for CLL/SLL and follicular lymphoma."
884	"To identify low-penetrance susceptibility alleles for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we performed a case-control study genotyping 768 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in 692 cases of CLL and 738 controls. We investigated nonsynonymous SNPs, SNPs with potential functional effect, and tag SNPs in regulatory gene regions in a total of 172 genes involved in cancer biology. After adjustment for multiple testing, we found a strong association between CLL risk and six genetic variants: CCNH (rs2266690, V270A), APAF1 (rs17028658, 3'region), IL16 (rs4505265, first intron), CASP8 (rs1045485, D302H), NOS2A (rs2779251, promoter), and CCR7 (rs3136687, intron 1). We found association with CLL susceptibility and 22 haplotypes in APAF1, IL6, TNFRSF13B, IL16, CASP3,  CCR7, LTA/TNF, BAX, BCL2, CXCL12, CASP10/CASP8, CASP1, CCL2, BAK1, and IL1A candidate genes. Finally, we evaluated using public data sets the potential functional effect on gene expression levels of the CLL associated genetic variants detected in regulatory regions. Minor alleles for APAF1 and IL16 were associated with lower mRNA levels; no expression differences were observed for CCR7, whereas NOS2A could not be assessed. This study suggests that common genetic variation in apoptosis- and immunoregulation-related genes is associated  with the CLL risk."
885	"Although accumulating evidence indicates that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  is a disease with appreciable cell dynamics, it remains uncertain whether this also applies to patients with stable disease. In this study, (2)H(2)O was administered to a clinically homogeneous cohort of nine stable, untreated CLL patients. CLL dynamics in blood and bone marrow were determined and compared with normal B-cell dynamics in blood from five healthy individuals who underwent a similar (2)H(2)O labeling protocol. Average CLL turnover rates (0.08-0.35% of the clone per day) were approximately 2-fold lower than average B-cell turnover rates from healthy individuals (0.34-0.89%), whereas the rate at which labeled CLL cells in blood disappeared (0.00-0.39% of B cells per day) was approximately 10-fold lower compared with labeled B cells from healthy individuals (1.57-4.24%  per day). Leukemic cell turnover variables inversely correlated with the level of somatic hypermutation of the CLL clone (IgVH mutations). Although CLL cells in bone marrow had a higher level of label enrichment than CLL cells in blood, no difference between proliferation rates and proapoptotic and antiapoptotic profiles of CLL cells from these compartments was observed. These data suggest that, in stable disease, there is a biological relationship between the degree of somatic hypermutation of the CLL clone and its dynamics in vivo. Furthermore, in  contrast to lymph nodes, the bone marrow does not seem to be a major CLL proliferation site."
886	"The importance of studying p53 pathway defects in CLL has been fostered by the demonstration of the fundamentally different clinical course of patients with 17p deletion, where the clinical course is, contrary to most patients with CLL, very  poor. The demonstration of the resistance to chemotherapy and mutation of the remaining TP53 allele explains the clinical presentation of CLL with 17p deletion. Here we review recent evidence that TP53 mutation in the absence of the deletion of 17p shows a similar clinical and biological course in CLL. In addition, there is growing evidence that alterations of other components of the DNA damage response pathway, such as ATM and miR34a are associated with treatment resistance."
887	"PURPOSE: We have recently shown that the novel nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB)  inhibitor LC-1 is effective in primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells.  Here we elucidated the mechanism of action of LC-1, evaluated its relative cytotoxicity in prognostic subsets, and investigated its potential synergistic interaction with fludarabine. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Ninety-six fully characterized CLL cases were assessed for in vitro sensitivity to LC-1 and fludarabine. In selected cases, caspase activation, inhibition of Rel A DNA binding, and the transcription of CFLAR, BIRC5, and BCL2 were measured before and after exposure to LC-1. In addition, the efficacy of LC-1 was assessed in the presence of the survival factors CD154 and interleukin-4, and the potential synergistic interaction between LC-1 and fludarabine was evaluated. RESULTS: Cell death was associated with caspase-3 activation mediated via activation of both caspase-8 and caspase-9. Apoptosis was preceded by a reduction of nuclear Rel A DNA binding and inhibition of CFLAR, BIRC5, and BCL2 transcription. Importantly, LC-1 overcame the cytoprotective effects by interleukin-4 and CD40 ligand and was equipotent in CLL cells derived from good and bad prognostic subsets. LC-1 exhibited strong synergy with fludarabine, and the combination produced a highly significant mean dose reduction index for fludarabine of > 1,000. CONCLUSIONS: In view of imminent first-in-man study of LC-1 in Cardiff, these data show an important mechanistic rationale for the use of LC-1 in this disease. Furthermore, it validates the concept of targeting nuclear factor-kappaB in CLL and identifies the therapeutic potential of LC-1 in combination with fludarabine  even in patients with fludarabine resistance."
888	"In the past, ZAP70 was considered a T cell-specific kinase, and its aberrant expression in B-CLL cells was interpreted as a sign of malignant transformation and dedifferentiation. It was only recently that ZAP70 was detected in normal human B cells. In this study, we show that TLR9-activated B cells resemble B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells with regard to CD5, CD23, CD25, and heat shock protein 90 expression. Furthermore, stimulatory CpG and GpC DNA oligonucleotides  target CD27(+)IgM(+) and CD27(-)IgM(+) B cells (but not IgM(-) B cells) and enhance ZAP70 expression predominantly in the IgM(+)CD27(+) B cell subset. ZAP70  is induced via activation of TLR-7 or -9 in a MyD88-dependent manner, depends on  protein kinase B (PKB)/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling and is rapamycin sensitive. Furthermore, ZAP70 expression levels correlate with induction of cyclin A2, prolonged B cell proliferation, and sustained induction of PKB. These  events are not observed upon CD40 ligation. However, this deficit can be overcome by the expression of constitutively active PKB, given that CD40 ligation of PKB-transgenic B cells induces B cell proliferation and ZAP70 expression. These results highlight a major difference between CD40- and TLR-7/9-mediated B cell activation and suggest that ZAP70 expression levels in B cells give an estimate of the proliferative potential and the associated PKB availability."
890	"Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) isoforms can influence disease pathogenesis and be novel therapeutic targets. Because lower cAMP levels may contribute to the decreased apoptosis that occurs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we assessed the expression levels of PDE isoforms in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of healthy adults and patients with CLL. We found a unique PDE mRNA signature in CLL: higher levels than in normal PBMC of PDE7B (increased approximately 23-fold) and lower levels of PDE3B, 4D, 5A, and 9A mRNA  (each decreased approximately 30-fold). Increased PDE7B mRNA in CLL correlates with a 10-fold-higher expression of PDE7B protein and results in an increased contribution of PDE7 to total PDE activity. Consistent with the higher level of PDE7B expression, inhibitors of PDE7 (BRL-50481, IR-202) and a dual PDE4/PDE7 inhibitor (IR-284) selectively increase apoptosis in CLL cells compared with normal PBMC or B cells. Apoptosis of CLL cells promoted by inhibitors of PDE7 and PDE4/7 is attenuated by PKA inhibition, occurs via a mitochondrial-dependent process, and is associated with increased cAMP accumulation and down-regulation of the antiapoptotic protein survivin and of PDE7B. The increase in PDE7B expression and PDE7 inhibitor-promoted apoptosis implicates PDE7B as a drug target in CLL. Our findings identify a unique PDE signature in CLL and illustrate the utility of broad analyses of PDE isoform expression in human disease."
891	"Cutaneous reactive angiomatosis is an unusual benign vascular disorder of the skin usually associated to systemic diseases. It is characterized by lobular or diffuse proliferation of small blood vessels with hyperplasia of endothelial cells, pericytes, and sometimes histiocytes. We report a 59-year-old man with asymptomatic erythematous-violaceous patches on back, palms, and elbows for 9 months. Laboratory examination revealed changes consistent with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Cutaneous biopsy showed a predominantly lobular small blood vessel proliferation in dermis with pericytic hyperplasia and mild perivascular lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate. Spontaneous involution of lesions occurred after 6  months. A second biopsy performed at the beginning of clinical involution showed  a less prominent vascular component with perivascular giant cells with coexpression of CD68 and CD 31. To our knowledge, this is the first case of cutaneous reactive angiomatosis with documented histopathological findings of clinical involution."
892	"Angiogenesis is a potential prognostic factor in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Elevated circulating levels of angiogenic factors in CLL have been repeatedly reported. Nevertheless, the issue of bone marrow neovascularization in CLL remains controversial, partly due to limited number of published studies, different methods of assessing microvessel density (MVD) and small patient cohorts. Moreover, there are very scarce data regarding the relationship of marrow angiogenesis to prognostic markers in CLL. Our objectives were: 1. To assess bone marrow MVD in CLL using two different monoclonal antibodies and a reproducible method of MVD quantification; 2. To examine the possible association of marrow MVD and clinical course, pattern of marrow infiltration, Rai stage, cytogenetic abnormalities detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH),  and mutation status of immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgVH). MVD was higher using CD34 vs vWF antibody (p<0.0001). However, no MVD differences were detected between CLL subgroups subdivided according to the above-mentioned prognostic factors. In conclusion, MVD assessment using anti-CD34 resulted in higher MVD counts than when using anti-vWF antibody. No association of MVD with any prognostic factors was observed, possibly due to the limited patient cohort.  As the need for bone marrow trephine biopsies in CLL is significantly decreasing, a standardized method of neovascularization assessment is required to enable possible multicentre studies in order to conduct larger investigations and thereby shed more light on the real clinical significance of bone marrow angiogenesis in CLL."
893	"Lyn, a tyrosine kinase belonging to the Src family, plays a key role as a switch  molecule that couples the B-cell receptor to downstream signaling. In B-CLL cells, Lyn is overexpressed, anomalously present in the cytosol, and displays a high constitutive activity, compared with normal B lymphocytes. The aim of this work was to gain insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying these aberrant properties of Lyn, which have already been demonstrated to be related to defective apoptosis in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells. Herein, Lyn is described to be in an active conformation as integral component of an aberrant cytosolic 600-kDa multiprotein complex in B-CLL cells, associated with several proteins, such as Hsp90 through its catalytic domain, and HS1 and SHP-1L  through its SH3 domain. In particular, Hsp90 appears tightly bound to cytosolic Lyn (CL), thus stabilizing the aberrant complex and converting individual transient interactions into stable ones. We also demonstrate that treatment of B-CLL cells with geldanamycin, an Hsp90 inhibitor already reported to induce cell death, is capable of dissociating the CL complex in the early phases of apoptosis and thus inactivating CL itself. These data identify the CL complex as a potential target for therapy in B-CLL."
895	"To mimic the molecular specificity and cell selectivity of monoclonal antibody (mAb) binding while decreasing size, nanomolecules (selective high-affinity ligands; SHALs), based on in silico modeling, have been created to bind to human  leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR10), a signaling receptor protein upregulated on the  malignant B-lymphocytes of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. SHALs were synthesized with a biotin or DOTA chelate (1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-N,N',N'',N'''-tetraacetic acid), using a solid-phase lysine-polyethyleneglycol backbone to link sets of ligands shown previously to bind to HLA-DR10. Using cell-binding and death assays and confocal  microscopy, SHAL uptake, residualization, and cytocidal activity were evaluated in HLA-DR10 expressing and nonexpressing live, human lymphoma cell lines. All of  the SHALs tested were selective for, and accumulated in, expressing cells. Reflecting binding to HLA-DR10 inside the cells, SHALs having the Ct ligand (3-(2-([3-chloro-5-trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]oxy)-anilino)-3-oxopropanionic acid) residualized in expressing cells greater than 179 times more than accountable by cell-surface membrane HLA-DR10. Confocal microscopy confirmed the  intracellular residualization of these SHALs. Importantly, SHALs with a Ct ligand had direct cytocidal activity, similar in potency to that of Lym-1 mAb and rituximab, selectively for HLA-DR10 expressing lymphoma cells and xenografts. The results show that SHALs containing the Ct ligand residualize intracellularly and  have cytocidal effects mediated by HLA-DR10. These SHALs have extraordinary potential as novel molecules for the selective targeting of lymphoma and leukemia for molecular therapy and imaging. Further, these SHALs can be used to transport  and residualize cytotoxic agents near critical sites inside these malignant cells."
896	"BALB/c mice bearing syngeneic BCL1 leukemia, a mouse model of human chronic lymphocytic leukemia, were treated with polymer-bound doxorubicin conjugate targeted with BCL1-specific monoclonal antibody. Such treatment can cure up to 100% of mice and the cured mice show long-lasting resistance to BCL1 leukemia. We show that both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are required for establishment of the resistance, but only CD8+ T cells are necessary for its maintenance. BCL1 cells express MHC class I and II and also costimulatory molecules CD80 and CD86, which  can aid eliciting of antitumor response. On the other hand, BCL1 cells also use several immunoescape mechanisms, such as expression of PD-L1, PD-L2, and interleukin-10. BCL1 cells thus can be recognized by BCL1-specific T cells, but instead of effective priming, such T cells are anergized or deleted by apoptosis. Moreover, BCL1 leukemia progression is accompanied by robust expansion of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells. Although it has been shown that depletion of Treg cells in tumor-bearing mice can retard tumor growth, direct evidence that expansion of Treg cells can promote tumor growth was lacking. In this study, we provide first direct evidence that expanded Treg cells can indeed  promote tumor progression by using mice with selectively expanded Treg cells before inoculation of BCL1 leukemia. Finally, we have also shown that elimination of some immunoescape mechanism (e.g., deletion of Treg) can significantly improve the therapeutic outcome of chemotherapy."
897	"The incidence of nephrotic syndrome co-existing with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a rare condition. Almost any glomerular pathology may accompany CLL. The most frequent of all is membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN). Moreover, in 5 - 10% of patients with CLL, monoclonal gammopathy may be detected  in serum and/or urine samples. There are no well-established treatment protocols  for those CLL patients with accompanying nephrotic syndrome. In this case report, we present a 55-year-old female patient diagnosed with CLL, developing nephrotic  syndrome, renal dysfunction and IgG k-type monoclonal gammopathy in the follow-up. The renal biopsy revealed glomerular and tubular deposits of k-chain and histopathology of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Rituximab along with CVP (cyclophosphamide - vincristine - prednisolone) chemotherapy regimen was initiated. At the end of 6 courses of treatment, the patient was on "nephrologic" partial remission as the serum creatinine and albumin levels had returned to normal and proteinuria decreased by more than 50%. The patient was also in partial remission for CLL. In conclusion, in patients with CLL and nephrotic syndrome, presence of MPGN along with light-chain nephropathy is rarely reported. Several different treatment protocols are discussed for these patients. Among these regimes, R-CVP is an acceptable alternative for CLL patients with MPGN."
898	"OBJECTIVE: To investigate the proapoptotic capacities of four arylcoumarin analogues of combretastatins on leukemic cells from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a malignancy characterized by apoptosis deficiency. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of the four compounds on several nuclear, membrane, and mitochondrial events of apoptosis and on expression of proteins controlling the apoptosis were analyzed after treatment of cultured CLL patients' cells. RESULTS: Treatment with all four compounds resulted in a dose-dependent internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, in stimulation of phosphatidylserine externalization, disruption of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential and caspase-3 activation. DNA fragmentation was prevented in the presence of the pan-caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk. Two of the compounds downregulated the expression of Mcl-1, a protein thought to be crucial for the antiapoptotic state  in CLL, while Bcl-2 expression was unaffected. No effects were observed on the expression of p27kip1 or the inducible nitric oxide synthase, two proteins, which are constitutively overexpressed by CLL cells and downregulated during the apoptosis induced by other plant-derived molecules (flavopiridol, polyphenols, or hyperforin). This suggests different mechanisms of action for the compounds studied here. Furthermore, normal B lymphocytes from healthy donors appeared less sensitive than CLL cells to the proapoptotic activity of the four compounds. CONCLUSION: The four arylcoumarin analogues were able to promote the apoptosis of CLL cells ex vivo through the caspase-dependent mitochondrial pathway. Therefore, these compounds may be of interest to develop new therapies of CLL based on apoptosis restoration."
899	"BACKGROUND: The nucleoside analogue fludarabine is used in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. It triggers p53-mediated apoptosis, although the mutational status of p53 does not fully account for heterogeneity in responsiveness to treatment. The aim of this study was to identify new genes implicated in fludarabine action as well as to determine the role of equilibrative nucleoside transporters (ENT) in the transcriptomic response triggered by this drug in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells bearing wild type p53. DESIGN AND METHODS: We performed gene expression profiling in cells from two fludarabine-sensitive and two fludarabine-resistant cases of chronic lymphocytic  leukemia treated with fludarabine either in the presence or the absence of nitrobenzylthioinosine, a hENT1-specific blocker. Twenty selected fludarabine-inducible genes were validated using Taqman low-density arrays in cells from 20 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with the same experimental design. RESULTS: Sixteen of the twenty genes (DDB2, GADD45A, TYMS, BAX, TIGAR, FAS, TNFSF7, TNFSF9, CCNG1, CDKN1A, MDM2, SESN1, MAP4K4, PPM1D, OSBPL3 and WIG1) correlated with the ex vivo sensitivity of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells to  fludarabine, TIGAR (TP53-induced glycolysis and apoptosis regulator) being the gene that showed the strongest correlation (p<0.0001; r2= 0.6022).We observed that the transcriptomic response was weakly sensitive to the hENT1 blocker nitrobenzylthioinosine. Interestingly, we also found a correlation between hENT2  expression and induction of TIGAR after fludarabine treatment. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate a correlation between the recently described p53-inducible apoptosis gene TIGAR and both sensitivity to fludarabine and hENT2  expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. These results, as well as the variability in fludarabine response among chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with wild type p53, support the major role of hENT2 in the uptake of fludarabine  into chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells."
900	"Few data are available concerning the prevalence of autoimmune disease or chronic infections in chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients at diagnosis as well as their clinical outcome. We studied the frequency of such chronic conditions in relation to prognostic markers. A history of autoimmune disease or chronic infection was found in 21% of 186 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients (12% in autoimmune diseases, 9% in chronic infections). Patients with a history of chronic stimulation were more likely to have unmutated IgV(H) genes (p<0.002), unfavorable or intermediate risk cytogenetics (11q, 17p deletions, trisomy 12) (p<0.001), and higher CD38 expression (p=0.004). Autoimmune conditions (n=22) were characterized by female predominance (55.0%) with a high frequency of unmutated IgV(H) (53,8%). Median time to first treatment was 83 months for the chronic stimulation group compared to 128 months for the non-chronic stimulation  group (n.s.). Patients suffering from chronic conditions at chronic lymphocytic leukemia diagnosis are likely to have poor prognostic markers, particularly unmutated IgV(H) genes."
902	"BACKGROUND: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a heterogeneous disease with a highly variable clinical course. Some patients may survive for years without need for therapy while others, although they had early treatment, the outcome is unsatisfactory. The motive to find more reliable prognostic factors apart from stage, age, tumor volume and immunoglobulin heavy chain mutations is of clinical interest. MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was carried out on 25 CLL patients attending Hematology Clinic at Ain Shams University Hospitals. Peripheral blood sample was  taken from each patient for surface CD38 and cytoplasmic zeta-chain-associated protein tyrosine kinase (ZAP-70) by flow cytometry and lipoprotein lipase (LPL) expression by real time PCR. RESULTS: We demonstrated statistically significant association between high level of LPL expression and significantly high LDH level, poor cytogenetic risk, ZAP- 70 expression and response to therapy (p=0.01, 0.02, 0.04 and 0.001 respectively). CONCLUSIONS: LPL expression can serve as a new surrogate prognostic factor for CLL patients and can be used to detect patients who need early treatment. KEYWORDS: Lipoprotein lipase - ZAP-70 - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
903	"More than 20 years ago clinical investigations in the immunotherapy of cancer revealed that infusion of certain immunotherapeutic mAbs directed to tumor cells  induced loss of targeted epitopes. This phenomenon, called antigenic modulation,  can compromise mAb-based therapies. Recently we reported that rituximab (RTX) treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients induced substantial loss of targeted CD20 on B cells found in the circulation after RTX infusion; this "shaving" of RTX-CD20 complexes from B cells is also promoted in vitro by THP-1 monocytes and by PBMC in a reaction mediated by Fcgamma receptors. The mechanism  responsible for shaving appears to be trogocytosis, a process in which receptors  on effector cells remove and internalize cognate ligands and cell membrane fragments from target cells. We now report that three therapeutic mAbs approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of cancer, RTX, cetuximab, and trastuzumab, as well as mAb T101, which has been shown to induce antigenic modulation in the clinic, promote trogocytosis in vitro upon binding to their respective target cells. Trogocytosis of the mAb-opsonized cells is mediated by THP-1 monocytes and by primary monocytes isolated from PBMC. In view  of these results, it is likely that these mAbs and possibly other anticancer mAbs now used in the clinic may promote trogocytic removal of the therapeutic mAbs and their cognate Ags from tumor cells in vivo. Our findings may have important implications with respect to the use of mAbs in cancer immunotherapy."
904	"Strongyloides stercoralis is a human intestinal parasite which may lead to complicated strongyloidiasis in immunocompromised. Here, a case of complicated strongyloidiasis in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia is reported. Presence of numerous S. stercoralis larvae in feces and sputum confirmed the diagnosis of hyperinfection syndrome in this patient. Following recovery of filariform larvae from agar plate culture of the stool, the isolate was characterized for the ITS1 region of ribosomal DNA gene by nested-PCR and sequencing. Albendazole therapy did not have cure effects; and just at the beginning of taking ivermectin, the patient died. The most important clue to prevent such fatal consequences is early diagnosis and proper treatment."
907	"Alemtuzumab is a humanised monoclonal antibody directed against the CD52 antigen. It is approved for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) as  a monotherapy and is being investigated as combination therapy and consolidation  therapy for CLL, as well as in conditioning regimens for stem cell transplantation. The pharmacokinetics (PK) of alemtuzumab is best described by a  two-compartment model with large interpatient variability in all PK parameters. Analyses of small patient cohorts suggest that higher serum alemtuzumab levels are associated with better treatment responses. Several patient-specific factors, such as disease status, tumor burden and soluble CD52 levels, appear to influence serum alemtuzumab level. Future studies are needed to improve the PK model of alemtuzumab and to explore a PK-guided dosing schedule, with the goal of maximising the therapeutic benefit of this agent."
909	"A series of 10 heterocyclic compounds purified from Allanblackia were tested on two B cell lines, ESKOL and EHEB, and on cells from B-CLL patients. Several molecules inhibited the proliferation of both cell lines and promoted apoptosis of B-CLL cells through different mechanisms, some of them elicited a dissipation  of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential, other triggered caspase-3 activation and cleavage of the inducible nitric oxide synthase. Blood mononuclear cells and B-lymphocytes from healthy donors appeared less sensitive than B-CLL cells. These results indicate that these molecules may be of interest in the development of new therapies for B-CLL."
910	"The mechanism of cytotoxicity of alemtuzumab and rituximab in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is not well understood. We obtained fresh CLL cells from early-intermediate stage high-risk patients just prior to treatment with alemtuzumab and rituximab to study mechanisms of action and resistance. Alemtuzumab had minimal direct cytotoxicity but caused significant complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) although a subpopulation of CLL cells had intrinsic  resistance. Rituximab had no direct cytotoxicity and caused minimal CDC in cells  from most patients. These data suggest that CDC has a therapeutic role in patients treated with alemtuzumab and that measures to decrease resistance to CDC could increase efficacy."
911	"The immunosuppression accompanies B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) but might be also responsible for disease progression by enabling CLL cells to escape from the immunosurveillance. Some particles involved in the regulation of an immune system might represent prognostic value for B-CLL. Recently we found no correlation between HLA-G on messenger and protein level, suggesting that HLA-G is released in soluble form. To confront this hypothesis we characterized soluble HLA-G (sHLA-G) by the prognostic factors in the first cohort of 34 CLL patients.  No correlation was observed between sHLA-G levels in ZAP-70(+) and ZAP-70(-) CLL  as well as in CD38(+) CLL and CD38(-) CLL patients. Next, we wondered whether gene expression of HLA-G, which represent the whole HLA-G pool in the cell, posses prognostic value for CLL. In the second cohort of 41 CLL patients we assessed messenger levels of HLA-G by the strongest prognostic factors in CLL including cytogenetics, IgVH mutational status, ZAP-70 as well as CD38. No changes of HLA-G expression levels were found in different CLL groups characterized by IgVH gene mutational status, ZAP-70 as well as CD38. We observed no differences in expression of HLA-G in various cytogenetic groups of CLL including del17p, del13q, del11q, +8q, +3q, del14q and del6q when compared to those with normal karyotype or with 12+. Both, mRNA expression of HLA-G and levels of its soluble form in plasma bring no additional prognostic value for B-CLL patients."
912	"Survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells requires sustained activation of the antiapoptotic PI-3-K/Akt pathway, and many therapies for CLL cause leukemia cell death by triggering apoptosis. Blood lipoprotein particles are either pro- or antiapoptotic. High-density lipoprotein particles are antiapoptotic through sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 3-mediated activation of the PI-3-K/Akt pathway. Apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4)-very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) increase apoptosis, but the apoE2-VLDL and apoE3-VLDL isoforms do not. As  increased B-cell apoptosis favors longer survival of CLL patients, we hypothesized that APOE4 genotype would beneficially influence the clinical course of CLL. We report here that women (but not men) with an APOE4 genotype had markedly longer survival than non-APOE4 patients. VLDL is metabolized to low-density lipoprotein through lipoprotein lipase. Higher levels of lipoprotein  lipase mRNA in these CLL patients correlated with shorter survival. The beneficial effect of APOE4 in CLL survival is likely mediated through APOE4 allele-specific regulation of leukemia cell apoptosis. The APOE allele and genotype distribution in these CLL patients is the same as in unaffected control  populations, suggesting that although APOE genotype influences CLL outcome and response to therapy, it does not alter susceptibility to developing this disease."
913	"Aurora-A kinase is a cell-cycle-regulating kinase required for chromosomal segregation. Overexpression of Aurora-A kinase has been shown to correlate with tumor proliferation and chromosomal instability. We investigated Aurora-A kinase  expression in peripheral blood and bone marrow of 47 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients and 20 age-matched hematologically healthy subjects. Western blot analysis showed significantly higher Aurora-A levels in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (42 of 47) compared with lymphocytes of healthy subjects. However, Aurora-A mRNA expression in three chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients was similar to or lower than that of healthy control subjects. In 28 of 42 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with elevated Aurora-A kinase expression, one or more chromosomal abnormalities were detected, including trisomy 12 in 9 patients  and deletion of the ataxia telangiectasia-mutated gene in 9 patients. Aurora-A was also detected in all (100%) chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases by immunohistochemistry, with a nuclear staining pattern. The larger prolymphocytes  and paraimmunoblasts showed stronger Aurora-A kinase expression than did small lymphocytes. In contrast, normal bone marrow reactive lymphocytes were negative for Aurora-A with positive histiocytes and immature myeloid cells. Immunostaining for acetylated histone H3 showed a nuclear pattern in all 38 chronic lymphocytic  leukemia cases and double labeling showed coexpression of acetylated histone H3 and Aurora-A. In summary, Aurora-A kinase is overexpressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells. The expression of acetylated histone H3 suggests that Aurora-A kinase may be active (functional). Thus, Aurora-A kinase overexpression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia may be involved in the genesis of chromosomal abnormalities and is a potential target for therapeutic intervention."
914	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by an accumulation of neoplastic B cells due to their resistance to apoptosis and increased survival. Among various factors, the tumor microenvironment is known to play a role in the regulation of cell proliferation and survival of many cancers. However, it remains unclear how the tumor microenvironment contributes to the increased survival of B-CLL cells. Therefore, we studied the influence of bone marrow stromal cell-induced hedgehog (Hh) signaling on the survival of B-CLL cells. Our results show that a Hh signaling inhibitor, cyclopamine, inhibits bone marrow stromal cell-induced survival of B-CLL cells, suggesting a role for Hh signaling in the survival of B-CLL cells. Furthermore, gene expression profiling  of primary B-CLL cells (n = 48) indicates that the expression of Hh signaling molecules, such as GLI1, GLI2, SUFU, and BCL2, is significantly increased and correlates with disease progression of B-CLL patients with clinical outcome. In addition, SUFU and GLI1 transcripts, as determined by real-time PCR, are significantly overexpressed and correlate with adverse indicators of clinical outcome in B-CLL patients, such as cytogenetics or CD38 expression. Furthermore,  selective down-regulation of GLI1 by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (GLI1-ASO) results in decreased BCL2 expression and cell survival, suggesting that GLI1 may  regulate BCL2 and, thereby, modulate cell survival in B-CLL. In addition, there was significantly increased apoptosis of B-CLL cells when cultured in the presence of GLI1-ASO and fludarabine. Together, these results reveal that Hh signaling is important in the pathogenesis of B-CLL and, hence, may be a potential therapeutic target."
915	"CASE REPORT: We report about a 61-year-old woman who attended our Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery complaining about an increasing swelling of her neck over a period of several years and asking for possible plastic surgery options. Further examinations lead us to the diagnosis of an uncommon manifestation of chronic B cell lymphoma. We suggest that plastic surgeons may refer to magnetic resonance tomography imaging and blood cell counts prior to liposuction of a massive swelling of the neck. DISCUSSION: Accurate reduction of adipose tissue in the obese patient is a common field for plastic surgeons. Thus, liposuction has become a standard regimen to treat adipose swelling. But there may be exceptions to the rule. In this case report, we present an uncommon manifestation of a chronic lymphocytic leukemia which showed a massive soft swelling of the whole neck, mimicking Madelung's disease."
916	"Leukemia is one of the cancers most susceptible to induction by ionizing radiation, but the effects of lower doses delivered over time have not been quantified adequately. After the Chornobyl (Chernobyl) accident in Ukraine in April 1986, several hundred thousand workers who were involved in cleaning up the site and its surroundings received fractionated exposure, primarily from external gamma radiation. To increase our understanding of the role of protracted low-dose radiation exposure in the etiology of leukemia, we conducted a nested case-control study of leukemia in a cohort of cleanup workers identified from the Chornobyl State Registry of Ukraine. The analysis is based on 71 cases of histologically confirmed leukemia diagnosed in 1986-2000 and 501 age- and residence-matched controls selected from the same cohort. Study subjects or their proxies were interviewed about their cleanup activities and other relevant factors. Individual bone marrow radiation doses were estimated by the RADRUE dose reconstruction method (mean dose = 76.4 mGy, SD = 213.4). We used conditional logistic regression to estimate leukemia risks. The excess relative risk (ERR) of total leukemia was 3.44 per Gy [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.47-9.78, P < 0.01]. The dose response was linear and did not differ significantly by calendar  period of first work in the 30-km Chornobyl zone, duration or type of work. We found a similar dose-response relationship for chronic and non-chronic lymphocytic leukemia [ERR = 4.09 per Gy (95% CI < 0-14.41) and 2.73 per Gy (95% CI < 0-13.50), respectively]. To further clarify these issues, we are extending the case-control study to ascertain cases for another 6 years (2001-2006)."
917	"Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number is increased in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), in Burkitt lymphoma and Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines, and in T cells activated via the T-cell receptor. We hypothesized that having a higher mtDNA copy number in peripheral white blood cell DNA from healthy subjects would be associated with future risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). We analyzed mtDNA copy number in 104 incident male NHL cases and 104 matched controls within the prospective Alpha-Tocopherol, Beta-Carotene (ATBC) Cancer Prevention cohort. There was a dose-response relationship between tertiles of mtDNA copy number and risk of NHL  (odds ratio [OR], 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.0; 1.4 [0.7-2.8]; and 2.4 [1.0-5.5], respectively; P(trend) = .046). The effect was most pronounced for the CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) subtype (OR: 1.0; 3.2 [0.7-15.7]; 14.1 [1.9-103.2]; P(trend) = .009). These results suggest that mtDNA copy number could be associated with the risk of NHL, particularly CLL/SLL."
918	"Resistance toward apoptotic stimuli mediated by overexpression of antiapoptotic factors or extracellular survival signals is considered to be responsible for accumulation of malignant B cells in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). TOSO was identified as overexpressed candidate gene in CLL, applying unit-transformation assays of publicly available microarray datasets. Based on CLL samples from 106 patients, TOSO was identified to exhibit elevated relative expression (RE) of 6.8 compared with healthy donor B cells using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR; P = .004). High levels of TOSO expression in CLL correlated with high leukocyte count, advanced Binet stage, previous need for chemotherapy, and unmutated IgV(H) status. CD38(+) CLL subsets harboring proliferative activity showed enhanced TOSO expression. We evaluated functional mechanisms of aberrant TOSO expression and identified TOSO expression significantly induced by B-cell receptor (BCR) stimulation compared with control cells (RE; 8.25 vs 4.86; P = .01). In contrast, CD40L signaling significantly reduced TOSO expression (RE, 2.60; P = .01). In summary, we show that the antiapoptotic factor TOSO is associated with progressive disease and enhanced in the proliferative CD38(+) CLL subset. Both association with unmutated IgV(H) and the specific induction of TOSO via the BCR suggest autoreactive BCR signaling as a key mediator of apoptosis resistance in CLL."
922	"Long-term survival of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is over 10 years, and such patients are thus potential kidney recipients in the case of superimposed end-stage renal disease. However, the renal and patient outcome in this condition is unknown. We report the charts of four patients with CLL who were engrafted in France with a deceased-donor kidney and underwent routine triple immunosuppressive therapy. The results show that these patients developed  severe infectious episodes (fatal in one case) and tumoral complications including rapid progression of CLL in two cases. Moreover, the graft may be infiltrated and damaged by monoclonal B cells: one patient lost his graft 14 months after transplantation. Various therapeutic options (modifications of the immunosuppressive regimen, anti-CD20 antibodies, irradiation of the graft) showed little (if any) efficacy. Therefore, we believe that CLL is a too hazardous condition to envisage solid organ transplantation with a routine immunosuppressive regimen, and we propose a more appropriate approach."
923	"We tested the efficacy and safety of oral fludarabine and cyclophosphamide as front-line therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and assessed the influence of immunoglobulin variable region heavy chain (IgVH) gene mutation status, interphase cytogenetic abnormalities, and expression of ZAP-70 and CD38 on clinical outcome. Thirty-seven patients with previously untreated CLL received oral fludarabine (30 mg m(2)) and oral cyclophosphamide (250 mg m(2)) for three consecutive days every 4 weeks for six cycles. Eighteen patients had unmutated and 15 had mutated IgVH genes. Nine patients had the 'high risk' cytogenetic abnormality del(11q22.3) or del(17p13.1). Fifteen patients were ZAP-70-positive and eight patients were CD38-positive. Among the 35 valuable patients, 14 patients (40%) obtained a complete response and 13 (37%) a partial response. The  median progression-free survival (PFS) was 23 months and median time to re-treatment (TTR) was 38 months. A significantly lower overall response rate (43% vs. 85%, p = 0.011), a shorter PFS (22 vs. 27 months, p = 0.015), and a shorter TTR (22 vs. 40 months, p = 0.031) were noticed in the 'high risk' cytogenetic abnormalities group; TTR was also shorter in IgVH-unmutated than in IgVH-mutated patients (26 vs. 41 months, p = 0.035). Hematologic toxicity included grade IV neutropenia (ten patients) and grade III/IV anemia (three patients). Gastrointestinal toxicity was mild and no patient required hospitalization. The oral combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide is an effective, safe, and well-tolerated regimen that, if confirmed with larger series, will be appropriate especially in patients with low risk biological parameters."
928	"Evidence for the existence of CLL-specific antigens recognized by the immune system can be gathered from the observation that many patients display monoclonal or oligoclonal expansions and skewed repertoire of T cells. In vitro functional studies have shown that tumor-specific T-cells are able to lyse the leukemic cells. Antileukemic cellular immunity may be boosted in vivo using dendritic cell-based immunotherapy. Our preclinical studies provide evidence that DC that had endocytosed apoptotic CLL cells (Apo-DC) were superior to fusion hybrids, tumor lysate or RNA in eliciting antileukemic T-cell responses in vitro. We have  validated a method for enriching the small number of monocyte precursors present  in the peripheral blood of CLL patients and utilize them for generating individualized, Apo-DC cellular vaccines. In most cases, a minimum of 50 x 10(6)  Apo-DC could be generated, beginning with immunomagnetically enriched monocytes from a single leukapheresis product containing at least 1% CD14+ cells. Cryopreservation and thawing did not affect the phenotype or the T cell stimulatory function of Apo-DC. A phase I/II, open label clinical trial examining the feasibility, safety and immunogenicity of Apo-DC vaccination has been initiated. CLL patients receive 10(7) Apo-DC for at least five immunizations and  monitored clinically and immunologically for 52 weeks. Three cohorts are accrued  stepwise. Cohort I receives Apo-DC alone; Cohort II: Apo-DC+ repeated doses of low-dose GM-CSF; Cohort III: low-dose cyclophosphamide followed by Apo-DC + GM-CSF."
929	"PURPOSE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) are two incurable B-cell lymphoid neoplasms characterized by distinct clinical presentation and evolution. Bendamustine hydrochloride is a multifunctional, alkylating agent with a purine-like ring system that exhibits activity in multiple cancer models, including CLL and MCL, but whose mechanism is only partially described. Our aim was to analyze the apoptotic pathways activated by bendamustine in CLL and MCL together with the relevance of p53 mutation in determining the response to this drug. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Thirteen CLL/MCL cell lines and primary tumor cells from 8 MCL and 25 CLL patients were cultured for up to 24 h with bendamustine followed by cytotoxic assays, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, and Western blot analysis of p53 response pathway and apoptosis-related factors. RESULTS: Bendamustine displayed cytotoxic activity on most CLL and MCL primary cells and cell lines irrespective of ZAP-70 expression and p53 status. Bendamustine was found to act synergistically with nucleoside analogues in both CLL and MCL, this combination being effective in p53 mutated cases resistant to standard chemotherapy. Bendamustine cytotoxicity was mediated by the generation of reactive oxygen species and triggering of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway involving up-regulation of PUMA and NOXA, conformational activation of BAX and BAK, and cytosolic release of caspase-related and caspase-unrelated mitochondrial apoptogenic proteins. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the use of bendamustine as a therapeutic agent, alone or in combination, for CLL and MCL with p53 alterations and describe the molecular basis of its activity in these entities."
930	"We report a case of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma of the thyroid gland. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first such case to be reported in the cytology literature. An 81-year-old male with known CLL presented for routine physical examination and was found to have a left-sided thyroid nodule. Thyroid ultrasound showed a calcified nodule. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) was performed and revealed PTC and an atypical lymphoid infiltrate that was suspicious for lymphoma. A partial thyroidectomy was performed and confirmed PTC with concurrent gland involvement by chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)."
932	"Fc receptor-like 6 (FCRL6), the most recently characterized member of the FCRL family, is a cell surface glycoprotein with tyrosine-based regulatory potential.  An extensive survey of human hematopoietic tissues disclosed that FCRL6 expression by NK- and T-cell subpopulations increases as a function of differentiation and is remarkably restricted to mature lymphocytes with cytotoxic capability. In particular, FCRL6 distinguishes perforin-expressing CD56dim NK cells, Vdelta1+ and Vdelta2+ gammadelta T cells, effector and effector memory CD8+ T cells, and rare cytotoxic CD4+ T cells in adult tissues. Analysis of this  receptor in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was also performed. FCRL6 was found to mark significantly expanded populations of cytotoxic CD8+ T, CD4+ T, and NK cells in patients with CLL. Despite sequence homology with the known Fc receptors for IgG and IgE, FCRL6 did not bind Ig. Although FCRL6 can be tyrosine-phosphorylated, its antibody-mediated ligation was unable to influence cellular activation. Collectively, these results demonstrate that FCRL6 is a distinct indicator of cytotoxic effector lymphocytes that is upregulated in diseases characterized by chronic immune stimulation."
934	"Follicular lymphomas characteristically carry t(14;18)(q32;q21) which results in  IGH-BCL-2 fusion. Variant translocations that juxtapose the BCL-2 gene with the immunoglobulin kappa (2p11) and lambda (22q11) light chain genes are rare. We report 4 cases of B-cell lymphoma/leukemia associated with t(18;22)(q21;q11). The t(18;22)(q21;q11) was the sole aberration identified by conventional cytogenetics in 2 cases. Three cases were classified as chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and one  as follicular lymphoma based on morphology and immunophenotype. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis was performed on all 4 cases using a BCL-2 breakapart probe. The BCL-2 gene was rearranged in all cases. Immunoglobulin lambda light chain gene rearrangement was shown in 3 cases using bacterial artificial chromosome probes spanning the variable and constant clusters of the IGlambda gene. Each case was negative for MALT-1 rearrangement using a MALT-1 breakapart probe. These cases illustrate that t(18;22)(q21;q11) is more commonly observed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and may represent either an initial or secondary genetic event."
935	"Fc receptor-like (FCRL) 1-5 molecules are exclusively expressed in B-cells and have recently been considered as potential targets for immunotherapy of B-cell malignancies. In this study, the expression pattern of FCRL1-5 molecules was investigated in Iranian patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Our RT-PCR results have demonstrated that all FCRL molecules, except FCRL4, were expressed in the vast majority of the patients with B-CLL. However, comparison of the relative mRNA expression levels of FCRL between B-CLL (n = 86)  and elderly normal subjects (n = 10) revealed significantly lower expression levels of FCRL1 (p < 0.0001), FCRL3 (p = 0.01) and FCRL4 (p = 0.002), but not FCRL2 or FCRL5, in cases with B-CLL. No significant differences were observed between the indolent and progressive subtypes of patients with B-CLL. Comparison  between the mutated and unmutated subtypes revealed a significantly higher expression level of FCRL3 (p = 0.017) in patients with mutated CLL. Surface and intracytoplasmic expression of FCRL1, 2, 4 and 5 in leukemic cells of 12 patients by flow cytometry revealed similar results to those obtained by RT-PCR with a few exceptions. Thus, while FCRL4 was expressed in only 2 samples at intracytoplasmic level, FCRL1 and 2 were expressed in the majority of samples, both at surface and intracytoplasm. FCRL5 protein was also detected in 10 samples, but surface expression was confirmed in only 2. Analysis of B-cells from 5 normal subjects by flow cytometry revealed higher expression levels of FCRL molecules compared to CLL. Our results indicate differential expression of FCRL molecules in B-CLL and  suggest the potential implication of FCRL1 and 2 for immunotherapeutic interventions."
936	"The correlation between well-established biological parameters of prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) [i.e., mutational status  of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgV(H)), ZAP-70- and CD38-expression] and adiponectin serum concentration was evaluated in a cohort of 69 previously untreated Binet stage A CLL patients. Adiponectin levels inversely  correlated with absolute peripheral blood lymphocyte count (r = -0.254; P = 0.03), CD38-positive CLL cells (r = -0.294; P = 0.04) and ZAP-70 (r = -0.285; P = 0.03). The univariate Cox proportional hazard model demonstrated that, in addition with lower serum levels of adiponectin (P = 0.01), the unmutated IgV(H)  condition (P = 0.002) and ZAP-70-positivity (P = 0.02) were associated with a shorter time to first treatment (TFT). However, in multivariate analysis only ZAP-70 positivity emerged as predictor of the TFT (P = 0.008). The levels of adiponectin in CLL were evaluated in 60 patients from an independent cohort investigated by gene expression profiling. Adiponectin gene expression was invariably low suggesting a limited (if any) role of leukemic cells in the production of circulating adiponectin levels. In contrast, both adiponectin receptor 1 (AdipoR1) and AdipoR2 mRNA were highly expressed by CLL cells with a degree of inter-patient variability. Our results, although preliminary, lend support to the idea that adiponectin secretion by bone marrow adipocytes might represent a possible promising drug target in the field of hematology."
937	"BACKGROUND: Erythema induratum of Bazin is a mostly lobular panniculitis. There is considerable controversy in the literature about whether or not vasculitis is  a histopathologic requirement to establish the diagnosis of erythema induratum of Bazin. Even accepting vasculitis as a histopathologic criterion, there is no agreement about the nature and size of the involved vessels. OBJECTIVE: The main goal of our study was to investigate whether or not vasculitis was present in a large series of cases of erythema induratum of Bazin  and, when vasculitis was found, to determine the nature and localization of the involved vessels. METHODS: We studied 101 skin biopsy specimens from 86 patients with clinicopathologic diagnosis of erythema induratum of Bazin. Histopathologic criteria required in each case to be included in this study were: (1) a mostly lobular panniculitis with necrotic adipocytes at the center of the fat lobule; (2) inflammatory infiltrate within the fat lobule mostly composed of neutrophils  in early lesions and granulomatous infiltrate in fully developed lesions; (3) significant fat necrosis; and (4) absence of other histopathologic findings that  allow a specific diagnosis of other lobular panniculitis different from erythema  induratum of Bazin. We also recorded the nature of the inflammatory cells involving the fat lobule, and the lesions were classified into two main categories: (1) early lesions, when the inflammatory infiltrate was mainly composed of neutrophils, with or without leukocytoclasis; and (2) fully developed lesions, when histiocytes and lipophages were the predominant inflammatory cells  within the involved fat lobule. RESULTS: Some type of vasculitis was evident in 91 cases (90.09%). A total of 47  biopsy specimens (46.5%) showed a mostly lobular panniculitis with necrotizing vasculitis involving the small vessels, probably venules, of the center of the fat lobule. Thirteen biopsy specimens (12.8%) showed a mostly lobular panniculitis with vasculitis involving both large septal veins and small vessels, probably venules, of the center of the fat lobule. Twelve biopsy specimens (11.8%) showed a mostly lobular panniculitis with vasculitis involving large septal veins, with no involvement or other septal or lobular vessels. Ten biopsy  specimens (9.9%) showed a mostly lobular panniculitis with vasculitis involving large septal vessels, both arteries and veins, and necrotizing vasculitis involving the small vessels, probably venules, of the center of the fat lobule. Nine biopsy specimens (8.9%) showed a mostly lobular panniculitis with vasculitis involving large septal vessels, both arteries and veins, but with no involvement  of the small blood vessels of the center of the fat lobule. Finally, 10 biopsy specimens (9.9%) showed a mostly lobular panniculitis without evidence of septal  or lobular vasculitis in serial sections. Associated diseases included history of extracutaneous tuberculosis (including tuberculosis of the lung, lymph nodes, kidney, or bowel) in 12 cases (13.95%), previous episodes of superficial thrombophlebitis of the lower legs in 3 cases (3.72%), rheumatoid arthritis in one case (1.16%), Crohn disease in one case (1.16%), chronic lymphocytic leukemia in two cases (2.32%), hypothyroidism in two cases (2.32%), and positive serology  for hepatitis B virus in 4 cases (4.65%) and for hepatitis C virus in 5 cases (5.81%). LIMITATIONS: Serial sections were not performed in all cases. At least 10 sections were studied in each case. When vasculitis was evident in some of these  first 10 sections, no further sections were cut, but when histopathologic features of vasculitis were not found in the first 10 sections, serial sections throughout the specimen were performed looking for vasculitis. Because some type  of vasculitis was evident in the first 10 sections of 91 cases, serial sections were performed only in the remaining 10 cases and they failed to demonstrate clear-cut histopathologic features of vasculitis. On the other hand, this is a retrospective study that was performed from the histopathologic slides of our files, and only the clinical information contained in the report accompanying the biopsy specimen could be recorded. CONCLUSIONS: In our experience, vasculitis is present in most lesions of erythema induratum of Bazin, and the nature, location, and size of the involved vessels is, from more to less frequent, as follows: (1) small venules of the fat lobule;  (2) both veins of the connective tissue septa and venules of the fat lobule; (3)  only veins of the connective tissue septa; (4) veins and arteries of the connective tissue septa and venules of the fat lobule; and (5) veins and arteries of the connective tissue septa. However, in some cases with all clinicopathologic features of erythema induratum of Bazin vasculitis could not be demonstrated with serial sections throughout the specimen and, therefore, the presence of vasculitis should be not considered as a criterion sine qua non for histopathologic diagnosis of erythema induratum of Bazin."
938	"PURPOSE: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and 17p deletion (17p-) have a poor prognosis. Although allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HCT) has the potential to cure patients with advanced CLL, it is not known whether this holds true for patients with 17p-CLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Baseline data from patients, for whom information on the presence of 17p-CLL was available, were downloaded from the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation database. Additional information on the course of CLL and follow-up was collected with a questionnaire. RESULTS: A total of 44 patients with 17p-CLL received allogeneic HCT between March 1995 and July 2006 from a matched sibling (n = 24) or an alternative donor  (n = 20). 17p-CLL had been diagnosed by fluorescent in situ hybridization in 82%  of patients and by conventional banding in 18% of patients. The median age was 54 years. Before HCT, a median of three lines of chemotherapy had been administered. At HCT, 53% of patients were in remission. Reduced-intensity conditioning was applied in 89% of patients. Acute, grade 2 to 4 graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)  occurred in 43% of patients, and extensive chronic GVHD occurred in 53% of patients. At last follow-up, 19 patients were alive, with a median observation time of 39 months (range, 18 to 101 months). Three-year overall survival and progression-free survival rates were 44% and 37%, respectively. The cumulative incidence of progressive disease at 4 years was 34%. No late relapse occurred in  nine patients with a follow-up longer than 4 years. CONCLUSION: Allogeneic HCT has the potential to induce long-term disease-free survival in patients with 17p-CLL."
939	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by the accumulation of long-lived monoclonal B cells mostly arrested at the G(0)/G(1) phase of the cell  cycle. CLL cells strongly express intracellular melanoma differentiation-associated gene-7 (MDA7)/IL-24. However, adenovirus-delivered MDA7 was reported to be cytotoxic in several tumor cell lines. We report herein that rIL-24 alone had no effect; however, sequential incubation with rIL-2 and rIL-24 reduced thymidine incorporation by 50% and induced apoptosis of CLL cells  in S and G(2)/M phases of the cell cycle, but not of normal adult blood or tonsil B cells. IL-24 stimulated STAT3 phosphorylation in IL-24R1-transfected cells but  not in normal or CLL B cells. In contrast, IL-24 reversed the IL-2-induced phosphorylation of STAT3 in CLL, and this effect was neutralized by anti-IL-24 Ab. Phospho- (P)STAT3 inhibition induced by IL-24 was reversed by pervanadate, an inhibitor of tyrosine phosphatases. The addition of rIL-24 to IL-2-activated CLL  B cells resulted in increases of transcription, protein synthesis. and phosphorylation of p53. The biological effects of IL-24 were reversed by the p53  inhibitor pifithrin-alpha and partly by the caspase inhibitor zvad. Troglitazone  (a protein tyrosine phosphatase, PTP1B activator) phosphatase inhibited PSTAT3 and augmented p53 expression. PSTAT3 is a transcriptional repressor of p53, and therefore IL-24 induction of p53 secondary to PSTAT3 dephosphorylation may be sensed as a stress signal and promote apoptosis in cycling cells. This model explains why IL-24 can protect some resting/differentiated cells and be deleterious to proliferating cells."
940	"Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and lymphotoxin alpha (LT-alpha) have been shown to play an important role in the pathogenesis of limphoproliferative disease. Both cytokines regulate cell-survival and cell-death in leukemic cells.  TNF-alpha and LT-alpha are highly produced in chronic lymphotic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) patients. Genetic polymorphism within regulatory regions of these cytokine genes can alter their expression levels. This study investigates an influence of TNF-alpha - 308 and LT-alpha + 250 polymorphisms on  the activity of alkaline DNase in mononuclear cells of both patient groups as a potent biochemical marker of DNA fragmentation in the terminal phase of apoptosis. Study was performed on mononuclear cells of CLL and NHL patients. SNP  were obtained by PCR-RFLP method. The activity of alkaline DNase was measured by  spectrophotometric method. The study provided evidence of the influence of TNFG/A genotype and A alleles in the susceptibility to NHL, since the association of LT-alphaG/G genotype with CLL was observed. High-producing TNF-alpha - 308/LT-alpha + 250 heterozygous haplotype is associated with high NHL incidence.  The investigated SNP influence the activity of alkaline DNase in CLL and NHL patients. The observed polymorphisms may modulate susceptibility of leukemic cells to apoptosis by way of DNase activity."
941	"ZAP-70, CD38 and IGHV mutations have all been reported to have prognostic impact  in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), both individually and in paired combinations. We aimed to determine whether the combination of all three factors  provided more refined prognostic information concerning the treatment-free interval (TFI) from diagnosis. ZAP-70, CD38 and IGHV mutations were evaluated in  142 patients. Combining all three factors, the ZAP-70-/CD38-/Mutated group showed the longest median TFI (62 months, n = 37), ZAP-70+/CD38+/Unmutated cases the shortest (11 months, n = 37) and cases discordant for > or = 1 factor, an intermediate TFI (27 months, n = 68) (p = 0.006). Analysis of discordant cases revealed values that were otherwise masked when measuring single prognostic factors. The presence or absence of cytogenetic abnormalities did not explain the variability among discordant cases. Simultaneous analysis of ZAP-70, CD38 and IGHV mutations in CLL provides more discriminatory prediction of TFI than any factor alone."
942	"We examined the clinical response of fludarabine-refractory CLL patients treated  with high-dose methylprednisolone (HDMP) and rituximab. Fourteen patients were treated with three cycles of rituximab (375 mg/m(2) weekly for 4 weeks) in combination with HDMP (1 gm/m(2) daily for 5 days). All patients were refractory  to fludarabine and 86% had high-risk disease by the modified Rai classification.  In all, 79% of the patients had CLL cells that expressed ZAP-70 and three patients had poor prognostic cytogenetics. The overall response rate was 93% and  the complete remission rate was 36%. The median time-to-progression was 15 months and the median time-to-next treatment was 22 months. Median survival has not been reached after a median follow up of 40 months. Four patients have died of progressive disease. Patients tolerated the treatment well and serious adverse events were rare. This allowed patients to receive all planned treatments on schedule with no dose modifications. All but one patient responded to treatment and the overall survival and time-to-progression were superior to those of other  published salvage regimens."
944	"Fludarabine (F-ara-A) is widely used as palliative treatment in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Clinical resistance is frequently observed, and adverse effects are common. To date, no practical assay exists to identify patients likely to derive benefit from F-ara-A. We previously reported that high  mRNA levels encoding human concentrative nucleoside transporter 3 (hCNT3) protein in CLL correlated with clinical resistance to F-ara-A. This study explores the value of immunohistochemistry (IHC) for hCNT3 as a marker of F-ara-A resistance in CLL. We studied 36 CLL patients who received F-ara-A monotherapy and had suitable pre-F-ara-A tissue available. IHC was performed with validated hCNT3-specific monoclonal antibodies and quantitatively scored by a hematopathologist blinded to clinical outcomes. Relationships between hCNT3 staining in CLL cells and time to progression (TTP), overall response (OR), and overall survival (OS) were assessed. Dichotomization of quantitative hCNT3 staining showed that subjects with high hCNT3 IHC scores had a significantly shorter TTP with F-ara-A treatment compared to those with a low score (hazard ratio, HR, 3.16; P=0.006). Median TTP was 4.7 vs 11.2 months, respectively. On multivariate analysis, hCNT3 score was the only clinical parameter independently  associated with TTP (HR, 3.12; P=0.01). OR and OS did not differ significantly between the dichotomized groups. We found a strong relationship between IHC staining of hCNT3 and clinical resistance to F-ara-A therapy in CLL. If confirmed, IHC for hCNT3 may be routinely used to predict those patients unlikely to benefit from F-ara-A, thereby avoiding F-ara-A-related toxicities."
945	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) represents the outgrowth of a CD5(+) B cell. Its etiology is unknown. The structure of membrane Ig on CLL cells of unrelated patients can be remarkably similar. Therefore, antigen binding and stimulation could contribute to clonal selection and expansion as well as disease promotion.  Initial studies suggest that CLL mAbs bind autoantigens. Since apoptosis can make autoantigens accessible for recognition by antibodies, and also create neo-epitopes by chemical modifications occurring naturally during this process, we sought to determine if CLL mAbs recognize autoantigens associated with apoptosis. In general, ~60% of CLL mAbs bound the surfaces of apoptotic cells, were polyreactive, and expressed unmutated IGHV. mAbs recognized two types of antigens: native molecules located within healthy cells, which relocated to the external cell surface during apoptosis; and/or neoantigens, generated by oxidation during the apoptotic process. Some of the latter epitopes are similar to those on bacteria and other microbes. Although most of the reactive mAbs were  not mutated, the use of unmutated IGHV did not bestow autoreactivity automatically, since several such mAbs were not reactive. Particular IGHV and IGHV/D/J rearrangements contributed to autoantigen binding, although the presence and degree of reactivity varied based on specific structural elements. Thus, clonal expansion in CLL may be stimulated by autoantigens occurring naturally during apoptosis. These data suggest that CLL may derive from normal B cells whose function is to remove cellular debris, and also to provide a first line of  defense against pathogens."
947	"We report a case of a 53-year-old man presenting with shoulder pain mimicking septic arthritis. Laboratory findings were atypical. Biopsy performed to assess for possible osteomyelitis demonstrated chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Intra-articular lymphoma is a rare but important consideration in patients with atypical clinical presentation. Imaging alone may  be insufficient to render diagnosis as lymphoma can mimic infection, synovial hypertrophic processes, and depositional arthropathy."
948	"The P2X(7) receptor is a ligand-gated cation-selective channel that mediates ATP-induced apoptosis of cells of the immune system. A loss-of-function single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) at position 1513 (1513 A-->C) of the P2X(7) gene has recently been identified in both healthy and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B-cells, translating into a loss of P2X(7)-mediated apoptosis in these cells. This antiapoptotic effect results in increased B-cell numbers, thereby potentially contributing to the survival of B-CLL clones. It was hypothesized that prolonged cell survival may also predispose to induction of autoimmunity. The objective of this study is to analyze the role of the P2X(7) receptor and its loss-of-function 1513 A-->C polymorphism (SNP) in the development of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). DNA samples obtained from patients with sporadic SLE were analyzed for the presence of the 1513 A-->C polymorphism using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and then direct sequencing. No significant difference in allele frequencies (1513 A-->C polymorphism) between sporadic cases of SLE and controls was found. A loss-of-function SNP at position 1513 (1513 A-->C) of the P2X(7) gene does not appear to be a susceptibility gene locus for the development of sporadic SLE."
949	"BACKGROUND: Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of lymph nodes is commonly used to assess disease progression in patients with small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). Although cytologic features are helpful for diagnosing typical SLL and transformed large-cell lymphoma (tLCL), SLL in accelerated phase (SLLacc) is more difficult to diagnose. Additional tests are needed to identify those patients who are transforming to a higher-grade lymphoma. This study evaluated the use of a multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probe panel specifically designed for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/SLL and assessed the association  between FISH findings and cytologic diagnosis, proliferation index, and risk of death. METHODS: FNA specimens from 50 patients (32 men and 18 women; mean age, 57 years  [range, 36-77 years]) with histologically confirmed CLL and/or SLL were evaluated in this study for chromosomal abnormalities of 11q22 (ATM), 12, 13q14.3, 13q34.3  (LAMP1), and 17p13.1 (p53) by using a multiprobe FISH kit. One of the 50 cases was excluded because of an insufficient number of cells for FISH analysis. The FISH findings were compared with the cytologic diagnoses (26 SLLs, 12 SLLaccs, and 11 tLCLs), Ki-67 immunostaining, and risk of death. RESULTS: Abnormal signal patterns for 17p13.1 and 13q34.3 were associated with tLCL. Aberrations of 17p13.1 were found to be significantly associated with Ki-67 staining. Of the 49 patients with interpretable FISH results, 22 (45%) had died at the time of the study, with a mean overall survival time of 17 months after FNA. Patients with aberrations of 17p13.1 and 11q22 had 3.7 and 2.7 times the risk of death, respectively, compared with patients with normal patterns. CONCLUSIONS: FISH can be performed on FNA specimens from patients with a history  of SLL/CLL. Chromosomal aberrations of 17p13.1 and 11q22 are associated with an increased risk of death. Knowledge of genetic abnormalities from FNAs may be useful in deciding when and how to treat indolent or progressive SLL."
952	"PURPOSE: Genetic factors are important in the etiology and pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Only a few small studies have assessed clinical characteristics and prognosis for familial patients, with inconsistent findings. METHODS: Using population-based registries from Sweden and Denmark, 7,749 patients with CLL, 7,476 patients with HL, and 25,801 patients with NHL with linkable first-degree relatives were identified. Kaplan-Meier curves were constructed to compare survival in patients with lymphoma with and without a family history of lymphoma. The risk of dying was assessed using adjusted Cox proportional hazard models. RESULTS: We found 85 patients with CLL (1.10%), 95 patients with HL (1.28%), and  206 patients with NHL (0.80%) with a family history of any lymphoma. Five-year mortality was similar for patients with CLL (hazard ratio [HR], 1.28; 95% CI, 0.95 to 1.72), HL (HR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.49 to 1.25), and NHL (HR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.74 to 1.12) versus without a family history of any lymphoma. Mortality was also similar for patients with versus without a family history of the same lymphoma. T-cell/anaplastic lymphoma patients with a family history of NHL had poorer outcome 5-years after diagnosis (HR, 5.38; 95% CI, 1.65 to 17.52). Results were similar for 10 years of follow-up. CONCLUSION: With the exception of T-cell/anaplastic lymphoma, survival patterns for patients with CLL, HL, and NHL with a family history of lymphoma were similar to those for sporadic patients, suggesting that most familial lymphomas do not have an altered clinical course. Our findings provide no evidence to modify therapeutic strategies for patients with CLL, HL, or NHL based solely on family history."
953	"A role for genetic factors in the etiology of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenström macroglobulinemia (LPL/WM) is implicated based on prior findings from multiply affected families and small case-control and cohort studies. We identified 2144 LPL/WM patients (1539 WM [72%] and 605 LPL [28%]) diagnosed in Sweden, 8279 population-based matched controls, and linkable first-degree relatives of patients (n = 6177) and controls (n = 24 609). Using a  marginal survival model, we calculated relative risks and 95% confidence intervals as measures of familial aggregation. We found first-degree relatives of LPL/WM patients to have 20-fold (4.1-98.4), 3.0-fold (2.0-4.4), 3.4-fold (1.7-6.6), and 5.0-fold (1.3-18.9) increased risks of developing LPL/WM, non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), respectively. However, there was  no evidence of an increased risk of developing multiple myeloma or Hodgkin lymphoma. In analyses stratified by type of first-degree relative (parent, sibling, offspring), age at diagnosis of the probands (greater or less than 70 years), and sex of the first-degree relative, we did not observe the risk estimates to be significantly different compared with the overall analyses. Our findings of highly increased risks of developing LPL/WM, NHL, CLL, and MGUS support the operation of shared susceptibility genes that predispose to LPL/WM and other lymphoproliferative disorders."
954	"The exact prognostic role of TP53 mutations (without 17p deletion) and any impact of the deletion without TP53 mutation in CLL are unclear. We studied 126 well-characterized CLL patients by direct sequencing and DHPLC to detect TP53 mutations (exons 2-11). Most patients with 17p deletions also had TP53 mutations  (81%). Mutations in the absence of 17p deletions were found in 4.5%. We found a shorter survival for patients with TP53 mutation (n = 18; P = .002), which was more pronounced when analyzed from the time point of mutation detection (6.8 vs 69 months, P < .001). The survival was equally poor for patients with deletion 17p plus TP53 mutation (7.6 months, n = 13), TP53 mutation only (5.5 months, n =  5), and 17p deletion only (5.4 months, n = 3). The prognostic impact of TP53 mutation (HR 3.71) was shown to be independent of stage, VH status, and 11q and 17p deletion in multivariate analysis. Serial samples showed evidence of clonal evolution and increasing clone size during chemotherapy, suggesting that there may be patients where this treatment is potentially harmful. TP53 mutations are associated with poor sur-vival once they occur in CLL. The de-monstration of clonal evolution under selective pressure supports the biologic significance of TP53 mutations in CLL."
955	"BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) usually are treated  only for progressive disease. However, the discovery of biologic predictors of a  high risk of disease progression, together with the development of newer, more targeted therapies, could change this paradigm. In this phase 2 study, the authors tested the safety and efficacy of early treatment for patients with high-risk CLL using alemtuzumab and rituximab. METHODS: Patients were eligible for treatment if they were 1) previously untreated, 2) had no National Cancer Institute-Working Group 1996 criteria for treatment, and 3) had at least 1 marker of high-risk disease 17p13-, 11q22-, or a combination of unmutated IgVH and CD38+/ZAP70+). Treatment consisted of subcutaneous alemtuzumab (initial dose escalation followed by 30 mg on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for 4 weeks) and intravenous rituximab (375 mg/m(2) per week x4 doses). All patients received Pneumocystis pneumonia and herpes virus prophylaxis and were monitored for cytomegalovirus reactivation. RESULTS: Twenty-seven of 30 patients (90%) responded to therapy with 11 (37%) complete responses (CRs). Five patients (17%) patients who had a CR had no detectable minimal residual disease. The median response duration was 14.4 months, and only 9 patients required retreatment for progressive disease at the time of the current report (median follow-up, 17.6 months). Study patients had a  significantly longer time from diagnosis to first treatment for CLL according to  conventional indications than a comparison cohort with similar biologic risk profiles. CONCLUSIONS: The therapy regimen used was safe and effective for early treatment  of patients with high-risk CLL. Further studies will be required to determine whether this early treatment strategy decreases morbidity and mortality for high-risk CLL."
956	"Genetic counseling has become the clinical bedrock of hereditary cancer management. Countless advances in molecular genetics contributing to the identification of cancer-causing germline mutations have increased its importance. We report a unique genetic counseling experience involving a family with hereditary chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the cancer-causing mutation in the death-associated protein kinase 1 gene (DAPK1). This hereditary disorder currently lacks any preventive or curative interventions for mutation carriers. This family has been under our investigation for a decade, during which time genealogy, cancer of all anatomic sites, medical and pathology records, and, whenever possible, slides and tissue blocks were reviewed. Family attendance at three group-oriented family information service sessions provided intensive education about this disease. Blood and skin fibroblasts were obtained for molecular genetic studies of DNA leading to the discovery of the DAPK1 mutation in the family. Their intellectual and emotional reaction to its presence or absence in them was assessed. This family serves as a model for genetic counseling in disorders for which lifesaving intervention is not yet possible."
957	"Chemokine-induced activation of alpha4beta1 and alphaLbeta2 integrins (by conformational change and clustering) is required for lymphocyte transendothelial migration (TEM) and entry into lymph nodes. We have previously reported that chemokine-induced TEM is defective in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and that this defect is a result of failure of the chemokine to induce polar clustering of alphaLbeta2; engagement of alpha4beta1 and autocrine vascular endothelial growth  factor (VEGF) restore clustering and TEM. The aim of the present study was to characterize the nature of this defect in alphaLbeta2 activation and determine how it is corrected. We show here that the alphaLbeta2 of CLL cells is already in variably activated conformations, which are not further altered by chemokine treatment. Importantly, such treatment usually does not cause an increase in the  GTP-loading of Rap1, a GTPase central to chemokine-induced activation of integrins. Furthermore, we show that this defect in Rap1 GTP-loading is at the level of the GTPase and is corrected in CLL cells cultured in the absence of exogenous stimuli, suggesting that the defect is the result of in vivo stimulation. Finally, we show that, because Rap1-induced activation of both alpha4beta1 and alphaLbeta2 is defective, autocrine VEGF and chemokine are necessary to activate alpha4beta1 for ligand binding. Subsequently, this binding  and both VEGF and chemokine stimulation are all needed for alphaLbeta2 activation for motility and TEM. The present study not only clarifies the nature of the alphaLbeta2 defect of CLL cells but is the first to implicate activation of Rap1  in the pathophysiology of CLL."
958	"Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP), belonging to the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, are multifunctional regulators of cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis in various types of malignant cells. In this study, we investigated BMP-6 promoter methylation in patients with various types of leukemias. The BMP-6 methylation was found preferentially in adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) (49 of 60, 82%) compared with other types of leukemias studied including acute myeloid leukemia (3 of 67, 5%), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (6 of 38, 16%) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (1 of 21, 5%). Among subtypes of ATL, the BMP-6 gene was more frequently methylated in aggressive ATL forms of acute (96%) and lymphoma (94%) types than less malignant chronic ATL (44%) and smoldering ATL (20%). We also analyzed the methylation status of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors and nonmalignant lymph nodes with reactive  lymphadenopathy, none of which showed detectable BMP-6 methylation in this study. The BMP-6 methyaltion was correlated with decreased mRNA transcript and protein expression. Expression of BMP-6 was restored by the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, suggesting that methylation was associated with the transcriptional silencing. Serial analysis demonstrated an increasing methylation of CpG sites in the BMP-6 promoter and the resultant suppression of BMP-6 expression as ATL progressed. These findings suggested that BMP-6 promoter methylation is likely to be a common epigenetic event at later stages of ATL and  that the methylation profiles may be useful for the staging of ATL as well as for evaluation of the individual risk of developing the disease."
961	"Cytogenetic fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) panels are a major prognostic tool in chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), but few data exist on using paraffin-embedded extramedullary tissue biopsy specimens for these purposes. Isolated whole nuclei were extracted from 20 paraffin-embedded tissue biopsy specimens with CLL/SLL and analyzed using a standard CLL FISH panel. FISH studies were successful in 18 (90%) of 20 cases, and chromosomal abnormalities were detected in 18 (100%) of the technically successful cases. Deletion 13q14.3 was most frequent (10 [56%]; isolated in 8 and with other abnormalities in 2), followed by trisomy 12 (5 [28%]), deletion 11q22.3 (4/16 [25%]), 14q32 (IGH@) translocation (3 [17%]), and deletion 17p13.1  (1/16 [6%]). One case with IGH@ translocation showed a BCL2 translocation partner. No cases showed 6q23 deletion. Results of this FISH panel performed on 42 additional peripheral blood (PB)/bone marrow (BM) CLL specimens were similar except for a significantly greater frequency of deletion 13q14.3 in combination with other aberrations. Cytogenetic FISH studies using paraffin-embedded tissue biopsy specimens in CLL/SLL had a high yield and, with 1 exception, demonstrated  a profile similar to cases diagnosed in PB/BM."
962	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) are the most common leukemias of the elderly. However, the sequential occurrence of CML followed by CLL in the same patient is extremely rare. In the present report, a 71-yr-old man was diagnosed with Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome positive CML and treated with imatinib mesylate. He went into morphologic, cytogenetic, and molecular remission. Seven years after the diagnosis of CML, he developed CLL. We describe the morphologic, immunophenotypic, cytogenetic, and molecular findings in this patient."
963	"Overexpression of antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family is observed in approximately 80% of B-cell lymphomas, contributing to intrinsic and acquired drug resistance. Nullifying the antiapoptotic influence of these proteins can potentially overcome this resistance, and may complement conventional chemotherapy. ABT-737 is a BH3-only mimetic and potent inhibitor of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), and Bcl-w. In vitro, ABT-737  exhibited concentration-dependent cytotoxicity against a broad panel of lymphoma  cell lines including mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). ABT-737 showed synergism when combined with the proteasome inhibitors bortezomib or carfilzomib in select lymphoma cell lines and induced potent mitochondrial membrane depolarization and apoptosis when combined with either. ABT-737 plus bortezomib also induced significant apoptosis in primary samples of  MCL, DLBCL, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) but no significant cytotoxic effect was observed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors. In severe combined immunodeficient beige mouse models of MCL, the addition of ABT-737 to bortezomib enhanced efficacy compared with either drug alone and with  the control. Collectively, these data suggest that ABT-737 alone or in combination with a proteasome inhibitor represents a novel and potentially important platform for the treatment of B-cell malignancies."
964	"Major therapeutic progress has been accomplished in leukemia and myelodysplastic  syndrome (MDS) over the past 40 years, which may not be fully appreciated by the  larger medical community. The objective of this review was to briefly highlight the treatment breakthroughs in leukemia and MDS. Therapeutic progress happened through better understanding of disease pathophysiologies and rational development of targeted agents, like imatinib mesylate in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), and through astute, empirical discoveries in the clinic, like all-trans retinoic acid and arsenic trioxide in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and chlorodeoxyadenosine in hairy cell leukemia (HCL). Today, the 5- to 10-year survival rates in patients with APL and HCL exceed 80%. In patients with  CML, imatinib therapy has been associated with estimated 5- to 7-year survival rates from 85% to 90%. In patients with adult acute lymphocytic leukemia, modern  intensive regimens have improved the 5-year survival rates from 20% up to 40%. In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chemoimmunotherapy recently produced  high rates of quality responses and improved long-term outcome. In younger patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), the 5-year survival rates range from  40% to 50%, although elderly AML remains a therapeutic challenge. In patients with MDS, it was recently demonstrated that epigenetic therapy with hypomethylating agents improved survival. Much therapeutic progress has been witnessed in leukemia and MDS, and much more is expected to occur soon."
965	"Advances in tumor immunology and Identification of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) provide a basis for the development of novel immunotherapies to treat malignant diseases. In order to identify novel TAAs, we performed comparative microarray analysis of (heterogeneous) tissues and found regulator of G protein-signaling 1 (RGS1) extensively up-regulated in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) tissues. To examine the possible function of this molecule as a novel, broadly applicable TAA, synthetic full-length RGS1-mRNA was synthesized for the transfection of monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs). These modified antigen-presenting cells (APCs) were then used to induce RGS1-specific cytotoxic  T cells (CTLs) in vitro. The CTLs generated from several healthy donors and a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) elicited an antigen-specific and  HLA-A2- and -A3-restricted cytolytic activity against tumor cells endogenously expressing the RGS1 protein including renal cell carcinomas (RCCs), melanoma, ovarian carcinoma and the primary autologous CLL-blasts. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that the in vitro induction of RGS1-specific CTLs by RNA-transfected DCs is feasible and highly effective. Since this molecule is (over-) expressed in a broad variety of malignancies it might represent an interesting novel TAA in the context of cancer vaccines designed to target RGS1 expressing tumor cells."
967	"A significant need exists for effective and well-tolerated treatments for patients with hematologic malignancies. Bendamustine hydrochloride is a novel cytotoxic agent that possesses alkylator and purine-like structural groups, which may confer a unique mechanism of action. Bendamustine recently was approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and currently is being used in clinical trials for a number of hematologic and solid tumors. Bendamustine has demonstrated promising clinical activity in patients with hematologic malignancies and has manageable toxicities  when administered as monotherapy or in combination with other agents. In clinical trials, nausea, fatigue, vomiting, fever, diarrhea, constipation, and headache were the most commonly reported nonhematologic side effects. Reversible myelosuppression also was reported. Nurses need to understand the efficacy and safety profiles of bendamustine to educate patients and their families about its  use and expected side effects. Knowledge of specific measures for preventing and  managing associated side effects and dose modifications is integral to the provision of optimal care."
968	"The role of inherited genetic factors in the etiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders is now well established. Significant familial aggregation of CLL and B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders has been demonstrated, but the mode of inheritance  is unknown. Identification of genes that when mutated confer an increased risk of these diseases is of immediate clinical relevance because it may offer clues to pathogenesis and highlight possible therapeutic targets. Furthermore, identification of these genes provides a greater understanding of the mechanisms  of B-cell tumorigenesis in general. This article reviews current knowledge relating to inherited susceptibility to CLL and strategies that are being used to identify disease-causing mutations."
969	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are at a significantly increased risk of developing cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), in part because of their impaired immunosurveillance. Here, we report the cases of 4 patients with CLL who had locally aggressive cutaneous scc managed with radiotherapy for local  recurrence following surgical excision. All tumours were located in the head-and-neck region. All patients initially achieved complete regression of disease; however, 2 had local recurrence a mean of 8 months after treatment completion. One patient died from progressive SCC. Our findings agree with the high rates reported in literature of multiple tumours, local recurrence, metastases, and mortality from scc in patients with cll. Radiotherapy plays an important role in patient management, and it is the recommended treatment modality when complete surgical excision of disease would result in anatomic and  functional defects. Radiotherapy is often used in the case of local recurrence after one or more attempts at surgical excision. Dose escalation through intensity-modulated radiotherapy, hyperfractionation, or novel treatment techniques such as high-intensity focused ultrasound may be explored to improve local control of scc lesions. To optimize patient outcomes, cutaneous SCC arising in patients with a history of cll should be managed and followed in a multidisciplinary clinic, with regular skin surveillance and prompt treatment."
970	"The aim of this study was to analyze the value of cytology in differentiation between malignant epithelial tumor metastases and hematologic malignancy. The follow-up of ten (10) patients who underwent diagnosis and treatment of two malignant diseases, i.e. carcinoma and hematologic malignancy, was performed in the 2000-2005 period. The median of age of our patients was 72 years (range: 49-79). Cytological examination included epithelial tumors, lymph nodes and bone  marrow standard Pappenheim and immunocytochemically stained smears. Carcinoma was initially diagnosed in 40% (4/10) patients and hematologic malignancy in 50% (5/10) patients, while both diseases co-occurred in one patient (1/10). Most of hematologic malignancy cases (4/10) were diagnosed as lymphoma. Multiple myeloma  was diagnosed in 3 out of 10 patients (30%). Individual cases of acute myeloblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and chronic myeloid leukemia were diagnosed in the remaining three patients. Most carcinomas were breast cancer (8/10), while prostate and thyroid gland cancer were diagnosed each in one patient, respectively."
971	"Inherited susceptibility to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been recognized for decades. Approximately 10% of individuals with CLL report a family history of CLL or a related lymphoproliferative disorder, and genetic predisposition is the best understood risk factor for CLL. Studies of familial CLL have suggested that the disease features are largely similar to sporadic CLL, although recent data suggest that familial CLL may more commonly show somatic hypermutation of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region, suggesting a more indolent disease course. Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) has been identified recently as a likely precursor to CLL; it is found in the general population with increasing age and enriched in unaffected relatives of individuals with familial CLL. Studies of MBL as well as mouse models of CLL may  lead to better understanding of early CLL pathogenesis that is relevant to familial predisposition. To date, the identification of genes that predispose to  familial CLL has been slow, primarily due to the relatively few families available for study, the small size of those families and disease causation most  likely by multiple genes that each confer smaller risks. In the coming years, the application of systematic genomics approaches to familial CLL should, hopefully,  lead to the identification of novel loci involved in the disease."
973	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most frequent type of leukemia in Western countries, but its incidence is low in Asian populations. In the present  study we determined the frequency of DRB1 and DQB1 alleles in 87 Iranian CLL patients and 100 healthy controls using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. An increased frequency of DRB1*07 (p = 0.04), DQB1*06 (p = 0.01) alleles, and DRB1*13/DQB1*03 haplotype (p = 0.01) and decreased frequency of the  DQB1*03 (p = 0.01) allele were observed in our patients compared with healthy controls. Comparison between patients with indolent (n = 42) and progressive (n = 38) disease revealed a significant increase in DRB1*04 and DRB5 alleles in progressive patients. Similarly, a higher frequency of DRB5 (p = 0.01) allele was observed in CD38(+) compared with CD38(-) patients. Classification of the patients into immunoglobulin variable region heavy-chain genes mutated and unmutated subtypes did not reveal significant differences for the expression of any of the HLA alleles or haplotypes between these two subtypes. Our findings observed in an Iranian population indicate that CLL could be associated with distinct HLA class II alleles and haplotypes of which the DQB1*06 allele and DRB1*13/DQB1*03 haplotype have not already been reported in CLL patients from other ethnic backgrounds. Some HLA class II alleles may contribute to disease progression in CLL."
974	"Immunohistochemical determination of p63 protein is frequently used in the pathologic diagnosis of nonhematological solid tumors. In malignant hematological disease, p63 expression has been reported in 22% of follicular lymphoma, about 35% of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, 23% of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and in some cases of blast crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. Anaplastic large cell lymphoma is a rare disease that accounts for less than 5% of all cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. There is little information concerning p63 expression in  this specific type of lymphoma. In some cases, the morphological and phenotypic features between anaplastic large cell lymphoma and classical Hodgkin's lymphoma  are similar, making this differential diagnosis challenging. We studied p63 expression using a tissue microarray approach in 154 cases of anaplastic large cell lymphoma, including 38% anaplastic large cell kinase positive and 62% anaplastic large cell kinase negative, and 58 Hodgkin's lymphoma cases. Sixty-eight cases of anaplastic large cell lymphoma (44%) showed p63 nuclear positivity (41% of anaplastic large cell kinase positive and 47% of anaplastic large cell kinase negative). Of 130 cases of systemic-anaplastic large cell lymphoma, 42% showed p63 positivity. The neoplastic cells expressed p63 in 38% of the cases of CD45-negative/anaplastic large cell kinase-negative null cell-type anaplastic large cell lymphoma, a subgroup that offers the most difficulties in the differential diagnosis with classical Hodgkin's lymphoma. In contrast, none of the cases of classical Hodgkin's lymphoma demonstrated any p63 expression. These results demonstrate that p63 protein expression is frequently expressed in  a subset of anaplastic large cell lymphoma cases and may be used as a potential tool in the differential diagnosis between anaplastic large cell lymphoma and classical Hodgkin's lymphoma."
975	"Bacillary angiomatosis is a cutaneous or visceral infection with Bartonella henselae or Bartonella quintana. Cases usually occur in HIV infected individuals. We present a 60-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and neutropenic fever caused by bacillary angiomatosis. The nine BA cases in oncology patients are reviewed."
976	"PURPOSE: To determine the presence and prognostic significance of ZAP-70 in patients with B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Expression of ZAP-70 in B-CLL is a continuum ranging from absent to high, affecting the prognostic reliability of this marker. PATIENTS AND METHODS: 32 patients with B-CLL treated from March 2006 to February  2007 were prospectively studied. Patients were stratified in two groups: those diagnosed with B-CLL within 18 months and a retrospective group diagnosed before  18 months since the beginning of this study. Patients were predominantly males (78.1%), over 60 years old (81.25%). ZAP-70 was detected on EPICX-XL flow cytometer with System II software. Directly conjugated antibodies CD19 PE, ZAP-70 FITC (clone 1E7.2) and CD2 APC were used. Leuoperm was used for permeabilization. All samples with over 20% ZAP-70/CD19 double positive B lymphocytes were considered positive. RESULTS: ZAP-70 was absent in a group of 22 patients with B-CLL diagnosed over 18 months from the beginning of this study, while 2 out of 10 (20%) patients from the group of newly diagnosed patients were ZAP-70(+). During follow up both ZAP-70(+) cases showed worsening of their clinical status resulting to death in one patient. In borderline cases with ZAP-70(+) ranging from 10.9-19.9% there was no correlation of the level of ZAP-70 expression with disease activity or clinical scoring systems. CONCLUSION: Very high percentage of ZAP-70(+) cells is a sign of poor prognosis in B-CLL. Borderline expression of ZAP-70, although more frequent, could not be successfully assigned into a risk group."
978	"The purpose of this study was to construct expression vectors of idiotype (Id) SmIg in patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia and to express them in E.coli to obtain recombinant Id, and to investigate the effect of the protein on  the proliferation and secretion of IL-2 and IFN-gamma of stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro. Light chain gene and Fd fragment of heavy chain gene were inserted into fd-tet-DOG2 vector to construct fd-tet-DOG2-Fab. Fab gene was further cloned into expression vector pHEN2 to construct the soluble expression vector pHEN2-Fab. After induction by IPTG, Fab protein was purified by Ni-NTA-chromatography. MTT was used to determine the effects of purified protein on the proliferation of stimulated PBMC in vitro and  the concentrations of IL-2 and IFN-gamma in the culture supernatants were detected by ELISA. The results showed that recombinant pHEN2-Fab expression vector was constructed successfully. Fab protein was expressed in positive clone  after induced by IPTG and two specific bands at 24-25 kD position were observed by SDS-PAGE electrophoresis. Proliferation of PBMC could be induced by purified Fab and the concentrations of IL-2 and IFN-gamma in culture supernatants were increased significantly after induction. It was suggested that the expression vector of SmIg Fab fragment was constructed successfully, and expressed and secreted from E. coli. The Fab protein could induce proliferation of PBMC and promote secretion of IL-2 and IFN-gamma."
979	"B cell-derived chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable disease that requires innovative therapeutic regimens. Experimental approaches of immunotherapy aiming at induction of systemic T-cell responses have been developed. Trioma cells provide a potent vaccine derived from malignant B cells that allows multiple antigens (Ags) from the parental tumor to be ingested by Ag-presenting cells. Like other strategies using modified whole tumor cells, this approach induces polyvalent responses. Using trioma cell-pulsed dendritic cells (DCs) for T-cell activation in vitro, we asked whether specific Ags overexpressed by CLL can be identified as target structures of such responses and what is the nature of these Ags. Expression levels of several genes in CLL samples were quantitated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. T lymphocytes were polyvalently stimulated by trioma-pulsed DCs and specificities were tested by determining cytokine secretion in the presence of target cells transfected with RNA coding for those Ags that were found to be overexpressed. We demonstrate that DCs pulsed with the modified tumor cells efficiently activate T lymphocytes  against CLL and that overexpressed Ags related to leukemogenesis, such as BCL-2,  MDM2, and ETV5, serve as targets for those T cells. Immune escape by Ag loss or mutation is less likely to occur if immunity is directed against altered self-proteins that are involved in malignant transformation. Therefore, vaccines  based on modified tumor cells such as triomas hold promise for immunotherapy of CLL and other malignancies. Polyvalent vaccines originally designed as individualized therapeutics may be more broadly applicable, at least in patients  showing similar Ag patterns."
982	"Deletion of the TP53 gene on chromosome 17p13.1 is the prognostic factor associated with the shortest survival in CLL. We used array-based comparative genomic hybridisation (arrayCGH) to identify additional DNA copy number changes in peripheral blood samples from 74 LRF CLL4 trial patients, 37 with >or=5% and 37 without TP53-deleted cells. ArrayCGH reliably detected deletions on 17p, including the TP53 locus, in cases with >or=50%TP53-deleted cells detected by fluorescence in situ hybridisation, plus seven additional cases with deleted regions on 17p excluding TP53. Losses on chromosomal regions 18p and/or 20p were  found exclusively in cases with >or=5%TP53-deleted cells (p<0.001), 38% having one or both losses. The incidence of additional cytogenetic abnormalities, reflecting an increased chromosomal instability, was higher in >or=5%TP53-deleted cases (p=0.02). In particular, amplification of 2p and deletion of 6q were both more frequent. Cases with >20%TP53-deleted cells had the worst prognosis in the LRF CLL4 trial."
986	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The incidence of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in Asian countries is lower than that in the Western ones, where CLL is the most common leukemia. It is a clinically heterogeneous disease, with survival ranging  from a few months to decades. The mutation status of the immunoglobulin variable  heavy chain (IgVH) gene has significantly improved prediction of the risk for disease progression. We investigated the frequency and mutation status of IgVH gene expression in Chinese patients with CLL. METHODS: IgVH gene segments usage and mutation status were investigated by multiplex RT-PCR, and the relationship between IgVH somatic mutation status and the expression of CD38 and ZAP-70 was analyzed in 65 CLL patients. RESULTS: Forty-five (69.2%) patients had mutated IgVH, and 20 (30.8%) had unmutated IgVH. The most frequently expressed VH gene family was found to be VH3  (47.7%) followed by VH4 (40%), VH1 (6.2%), VH2 (4.6%) and VH7 (1.5%), with no expression of VH5 or VH6 gene families. VH1-69 and VH3-21 which commonly overused in Western CLL were very low in our cohort. IgVH gene mutation status was significantly associated with the expression of CD38. CONCLUSIONS: The frequency of IgVH gene families indicates significant difference in Chinese CLL patients compared with Western patients, suggesting involvement of ethnic and/or environmental factors in CLL disease initiation. The expression of  them may be simple and reliable surrogates for the identification of IgVH mutations."
987	"Soluble CD23 (sCD23) levels correlate with the stage, prognosis and overall survival (OS) of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Therefore, we  prospectively evaluated sCD23 doubling time (sCD23DT) as a prognostic factor for  time to treatment (TTT) and OS in 56 newly diagnosed and untreated CLL patients at Binet stage A, and compared it to the most commonly used biological prognostic factors: lymphocyte doubling time, immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgVH) mutational status and zeta-associated protein-70 (ZAP-70), CD38, and lipoprotein  lipase (LPL) expression. In patients with sCD23DT <1 year, the median TTT and OS  were 20 and 83 months compared to 141 and 177 months in patients with sCD23DT >1  year (P<0.0001). Among patients with poor prognostic factors (ZAP-70+, LPL+ and CD38+), an sCD23DT <1 year identified a subpopulation with a shorter TTT. Patients with unmutated IgVH and an sCD23DT <1 year had a median TTT and OS of 14 and 83 months, respectively, whereas these values were 70 and >177 months when sCD23DT was >1 year (P<0.0001 and P=0.0219, respectively). Finally, in a Cox multivariate analysis, sCD23DT was the sole independent prognostic factor for TTT (P=0.0027). Furthermore, sCD23DT refines the prognosis given by other classical prognostic factors. These observations support the introduction of sCD23 evaluation into the routine assessment of CLL patients."
988	"The proper epigenetic modification of chromatin by protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) is crucial for normal cell growth and health. The human SWI/SNF-associated PRMT5 is involved in the transcriptional repression of target genes by directly methylating H3R8 and H4R3. To further understand the impact of PRMT5-mediated histone methylation on cancer, we analyzed its expression in normal and transformed human B lymphocytes. Our findings reveal that PRMT5 protein levels are enhanced in various human lymphoid cancer cells, including transformed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cell lines. PRMT5 overexpression is caused by the altered expression of the PRMT5-specific microRNAs 19a, 25, 32, 92, 92b, and 96 and results in the increased global symmetric methylation of H3R8 and H4R3. An evaluation of both epigenetic marks at PRMT5 target genes such as RB1 (p105), RBL1 (p107), and RBL2 (p130) showed that promoters H3R8 and H4R3 are hypermethylated, which in turn triggers pocket protein transcriptional repression. Furthermore, reducing PRMT5 expression in WaC3CD5 B-CLL cells abolishes H3R8 and H4R3 hypermethylation, restores RBL2 expression, and inhibits cancer cell proliferation. These results indicate that PRMT5 overexpression epigenetically alters the transcription of key tumor suppressor genes and suggest a causal role of the elevated symmetric methylation  of H3R8 and H4R3 at the RBL2 promoter in transformed B-lymphocyte pathology."
989	"We conducted a genome-wide association study of 299,983 tagging SNPs for chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and performed validation in two additional series totaling 1,529 cases and 3,115 controls. We identified six previously unreported  CLL risk loci at 2q13 (rs17483466; P = 2.36 x 10(-10)), 2q37.1 (rs13397985, SP140; P = 5.40 x 10(-10)), 6p25.3 (rs872071, IRF4; P = 1.91 x 10(-20)), 11q24.1  (rs735665; P = 3.78 x 10(-12)), 15q23 (rs7176508; P = 4.54 x 10(-12)) and 19q13.32 (rs11083846, PRKD2; P = 3.96 x 10(-9)). These data provide the first evidence for the existence of common, low-penetrance susceptibility to a hematological malignancy and new insights into disease causation in CLL."
992	"Lenalidomide, an immunomodulatory agent, and flavopiridol, a broad cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, are active therapies for clinical use in genomic high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia. A high-performance liquid chromatographic assay with tandem mass spectrometric detection has been developed to simultaneously quantify lenalidomide and flavopiridol in human and mouse plasma to facilitate their combined clinical development. Samples were prepared by liquid-liquid extraction with acetonitrile (ACN)-containing internal standard, genistein, followed by evaporation of solvent and reconstitution in 95/5 H2O/ACN. Lenalidomide and internal standard were separated by reversed-phase liquid chromatography on a C-18 column using a gradient of H2O and ACN, each with 0.1% formic acid. Atmospheric pressure chemical ionization in positive ion mode with single reaction monitoring on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer was applied to detect transitions of lenalidomide (260.06 > 149.10) and flavopiridol (402.09  > 341.02). Lower limits of quantification of lenalidomide and flavopiridol were 1 and 0.3 nM, respectively. Recoveries of lenalidomide and flavopiridol from human  plasma ranged from 99% to 116% throughout their linear ranges. Within- and between-run precision and accuracy of replicate samples were all less than 15%. This is the most sensitive analytical method reported to date for both lenalidomide and flavopiridol. This sensitivity will enable late terminal phase concentration measurements and accurate pharmacokinetic parameter estimation in a planned clinical trial with lenalidomide and flavopiridol in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
996	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has unique epidemiologic, biologic, and clinical features. The progressively emerging picture leads us to consider that the critical genes for malignant CLL cells are those regulated by a number of microRNAs revealed by refined cytogenetic and molecular studies, and that the key molecule is the B-cell receptor (BCR). The hypothesis that CLL cells might be selected by some sort of antigenic pressure is strengthened by numerous findings  indicating that a BCR-mediated stimulation plays a relevant role in the natural history of the disease and that autoantigens, as well as molecular structures instrumental in eliminating and scavenging apoptotic cells and pathogenic bacteria, may be relevant in triggering and/or facilitating the evolution of CLL. An important question is whether the tiny monoclonal B-cell populations phenotypically similar to CLL (that occur in the peripheral blood of about 3.5% of healthy individuals and are termed monoclonal B lymphocytosis) might be a critical step in the development of CLL. All relevant events of CLL occur in tissues in which a number of cellular and molecular interactions shape a microenvironment conducive to the accumulation of malignant cells and favor the organization of proliferating cells in focal aggregates of variable size that form the pseudofollicular proliferation centers. Given the impact that understanding the pathogenesis of CLL might have on the development of new treatments, the purposes of this review are to discuss whether the novel insights in CLL are leading us closer to understanding the tenet of the disease; to define the emerging new, stimulating questions; and to unfold the major challenges that  still need to be addressed."
998	"Beta-(1,3)/(1,6) D-glucan, a component of the fungal cell wall, has been shown to stimulate the immune system, enhance hematopoiesis, amplify killing of opsonized  tumor cells and increase neutrophil chemotaxis and adhesion. In view of these attributes, the beta-glucans should be studied for both their therapeutic efficacy in patients with cancer as well as an adjunctive therapy in patients receiving chemotherapy as a maneuver to limit suppression of hematopoiesis.In this study, twenty patients with advanced malignancies receiving chemotherapy were given a beta-(1,3)/(1,6) D-glucan preparation (MacroForce plus IP6, ImmuDyne, Inc.) and monitored for tolerability and effect on hematopoiesis. Our results lead us to conclude that beta-glucan is well-tolerated in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy, may have a beneficial effect on hematopoiesis in these patients and should be studied further, especially in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and lymphoma."
999	"The anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab has been less successful in treating  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) than lymphoma, possibly due to the lower density of CD20 on B lymphocytes from CLL patients than on those from lymphoma patients. This lowering may result from insufficiency of one of the transcription factors of cd20. Of these, purine-rich box-1 (PU.1) is poorly expressed in CLL. To estimate its weight in CD20 expression, pu.1 cDNA was transfected into CLL B cells and shown to raise the membrane expression of CD20 and to improve the rituximab-induced lysis of transfected cells. Granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor and all-trans-retinoic acids were not involved in the defective expression of PU.1 or the excessive methylation of the pu.1 gene, because 6 of 14 CLL samples tested were normally methylated. This was confirmed by the failure of DNA methyltransferase inhibitors to restore pu.1 transcription  in hypermethylated CLL, and, in fact, the expression of PU.1 was down-regulated by excessive expression of the FMS proto-oncogene-like tyrosine kinase 3 (Flt3) receptor. This abnormality is consistent with our finding of elevated levels of Flt3 ligand (FL) in 20 of 23 CLL sera tested. We propose that FL-dependent increased Flt3 signaling prevents the expression of PU.1, which down-regulates that of CD20, and accounts for resistance of leukemic B cells to rituximab-induced lysis."
1000	"During the clonal expansion of cancer from an ancestral cell with an initiating oncogenic mutation to symptomatic neoplasm, the occurrence of somatic mutations (both driver and passenger) can be used to track the on-going evolution of the neoplasm. All subclones within a cancer are phylogenetically related, with the prevalence of each subclone determined by its evolutionary fitness and the timing of its origin relative to other subclones. Recently developed massively parallel  sequencing platforms promise the ability to detect rare subclones of genetic variants without a priori knowledge of the mutations involved. We used ultra-deep pyrosequencing to investigate intraclonal diversification at the Ig heavy chain locus in 22 patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Analysis of a non-polymorphic control locus revealed artifactual insertions and deletions resulting from sequencing errors and base substitutions caused by polymerase misincorporation during PCR amplification. We developed an algorithm to differentiate genuine haplotypes of somatic hypermutations from such artifacts. This proved capable of detecting multiple rare subclones with frequencies as low  as 1 in 5000 copies and allowed the characterization of phylogenetic interrelationships among subclones within each patient. This study demonstrates the potential for ultra-deep resequencing to recapitulate the dynamics of clonal  evolution in cancer cell populations."
1003	"Leukemia-cell expression of ZAP-70, CD38, or unmutated immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes (U-IGHV) each is associated with aggressive disease in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). To assess the relative strength of each marker, we defined thresholds for designating a case as positive for CD38 or ZAP-70 in a test cohort of 307 patients and used these data-defined criteria to stratify patients in an independent cohort of 705 patients. Multivariable analysis revealed that ZAP-70 was the strongest risk factor. Knowledge of the IGHV mutation status or CD38 did not improve our ability to predict the time to first treatment except for ZAP-70-negative cases, which could be segregated into  2 groups of intermediate-risk or low-risk disease based on whether they expressed unmutated or mutated IGHV. ZAP-70 maintained its high relative prognostic value for the subset of patients with early-stage, asymptomatic disease, including patients evaluated within 1 year of diagnosis. Although it is premature to recommend therapy based on these risk factors, patients with ZAP-70-positive CLL  cells should be monitored closely for disease progression as they have a median time from diagnosis to requiring initial therapy by standard criteria of approximately 3 years."
1004	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common adult leukemia, and resistance to fludarabine-based therapies is a major challenge in CLL treatment.  Because CLL cells are known to have elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), we aimed to test a novel ROS-mediated strategy to eliminate fludarabine-resistant CLL cells based on this redox alteration. Using primary CLL cells and normal lymphocytes from patients (n = 58) and healthy subjects (n = 12), we showed that both fludarabine-resistant and -sensitive CLL cells were highly sensitive to beta-phenylethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC) with mean IC(50) values of 5.4 microM and 5.1 microM, respectively. Normal lymphocytes were significantly less sensitive to PEITC (IC(50) = 27 microM, P < .001). CLL cells exhibited intrinsically higher ROS level and lower cellular glutathione, which were shown to be the critical determinants of CLL sensitivity to PEITC. Exposure  of CLL cells to PEITC induced severe glutathione depletion, ROS accumulation, and oxidation of mitochondrial cardiolipin leading to massive cell death. Such ROS stress also caused deglutathionylation of MCL1, followed by a rapid degradation of this cell survival molecule. Our study demonstrated that the natural compound  PEITC is effective in eliminating fludarabine-resistant CLL cells through a redox-mediated mechanism with low toxicity to normal lymphocytes, and warrants further clinical evaluation."
1005	"Gossypol, a cottonseed extract derivative, acts as a BH3-mimetic, binding to the  BH3 pocket of antiapoptotic proteins and displacing pro-death partners to induce  apoptosis. However, knowledge on the molecular underpinnings of its downstream effects is limited. Since chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells express high levels of antiapoptotic proteins that act as a survival mechanism for these replicationally quiescent lymphocytes, we investigated whether gossypol induces apoptosis in these cells and what mechanism underlies gossypol-mediated cytotoxicity. Gossypol induced cell death in a concentration- and time-dependent  manner; 24-hour incubation with 30 microM gossypol resulted in 50% cell death (median; range, 10%-80%; n = 47) that was not abrogated by pan-specific caspase inhibitor. Starting at 4 hours, the mitochondrial outer membrane was significantly permeabilized (median, 77%; range, 54%-93%; n = 15). Mitochondrial  outer membrane permeabiliztaion (MOMP) was concurrent with increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS); however, antioxidants did not abrogate gossypol-induced cell death. Mitochondrial membrane permeabilization was also associated with loss of intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP), activation of BAX, and release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), which was translocated to the nucleus. Blocking AIF translocation resulted in a decreased apoptosis, suggesting that AIF contributes to gossypol-mediated cytotoxicity in CLL lymphocytes."
1007	"Transcriptional and post-transcriptional control mechanisms have a differential impact on cellular physiology depending on activation status. Several lines of evidence suggest that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) malignant B cells resemble antigen-experienced and activated B cells. In the present study, we investigated the expression of transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1, CD71), one of the "classical" markers up-regulated upon B-cell activation, and TfR2, a novel receptor for transferrin, in peripheral blood CD19+ B cells from ten healthy individuals and 76 patients with CLL so as to gain insight into potential disease-related differences in underlying regulatory mechanisms. Marked differences in the production and expression of these receptors were detected in  malignant but not in normal B cells. Specifically, TfR1 mRNA and protein levels were significantly higher in comparison to TfR2, both in normal and malignant B cells. Furthermore, discrepancies between TfR mRNA and protein expression were observed in CLL; in contrast, mRNA and protein expression levels were generally concordant in normal B cells. Exposure to actinomycin D decreased TfR1 and TfR2 mRNA levels in normal CD19+ B cells but had no effect on CLL malignant cells. The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide had opposing effects in normal vs. CLL  malignant B cells: thus, TfR1 and TfR2 mRNA levels were increased in normal B cells, whereas they were unaffected or even suppressed in CLL malignant B cells.  These results allude to differential regulation of TfR1 and TfR2 expression in normal B cells vs. CLL. In normal B cells, transcriptional mechanisms exert a critical control over TfR1 and TfR2 expression, whereas in CLL post-transcriptional mechanisms seem to play a complementary and perhaps more important role. This type of control appears to be especially suited for modulation of genes implicated in proliferation of activated cells, like CLL malignant B cells."
1008	"The prevalence of pregnancy associated leukemia is approximately 1 case out of 10,000 pregnancies. This rare occurrence precludes the conducting of large, prospective studies to examine diagnostic, management and outcome issues. The treatment of a pregnant woman with leukemia may be associated with severe adverse fetal outcome including death and malformations, and therefore poses a difficult  challenge for both the patient and the attending physician. Chemotherapy during the 1st trimester is associated with an increased risk for congenital malformations. However, this risk diminishes as pregnancy advances. When acute leukemia is diagnosed during the 1st trimester, patients should be treated promptly similar to non-pregnant patients. However, the aggressive induction therapy should follow pregnancy termination. When the diagnosis is made later in  pregnancy standard chemotherapy regimen should be considered and usually pregnancy termination is not mandatory. However, both the mother and the fetus should be under close observation and delivery should be postponed to a non-cytopenic period. Pregnancy associated chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) can be treated with interferon throughout pregnancy with no apparent increase in adverse fetal outcome. In the very rare case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) during pregnancy treatment can usually be delayed until after delivery."
1010	"The past 2 decades have brought major advances to clinicians' understanding of the complexities of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Novel biologic and genetic markers are providing tools for more accurate prediction of responses, disease progression, and survival of patients across different stages of CLL. Several multivariate analyses have confirmed unmutated IgVH to be an independent  adverse prognostic marker in patients with CLL. The presence of unmutated IgVH is strongly associated with poor-risk genomic aberrations and overexpression of CD38 and ZAP-70. Nevertheless, these associations are not absolute. The design of future clinical trials are already incorporating novel prognostic markers such as IgVH, among others, as part of risk-adapted strategies aimed at improving treatment outcomes by tailoring the aggressiveness of the therapy proportional to disease risk. Such a strategy could minimize unnecessary chemotoxicity in patients with favorable prognosis CLL, while reserving more aggressive therapy, including allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation, for patients with poor-risk features."
1011	"INTRODUCTION: Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is a rare and potentially life-threatening event which may complicate the course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) at any time and steroid-refractory AIHA of CLL poses a therapeutic challenge for physicians. Here, we report the safety and efficacy of a rituximab-containing regimen in a CLL patient with steroid- and IVIg-refractory AIHA. CASE REPORT: A 57-year- old man affected by CLL, presented with fatigue, dyspnoea, tachycardia and jaundice. His physical examination revealed overt jaundice, hepato- and splenomegaly, and enlargement of lymph nodes in all superficial sites. The blood chemistry showed severe anemia (Hb value 3.9 g/dL),  high white blood cell count (89 x 10(9)/L), altered hemolysis markers and direct  antiglobulin test (DAT) was positive for both complement and IgG. The patient failed to respond to both a 4-day course of high-dose dexamethasone IV (40 mg/day) and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) (1 g/kg/day x 2 days). Thus, a schedule containing rituximab (375 mg/m(2) day +1), cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m(2) day +2) and prednisone (60 mg/m(2) from day +1 to day +7) (R-CP) were administered. Four cycles, repeated every 4 weeks, were administered. After 4 days from the infusion of this schedule, the patient showed a marked reduction of the lymphocytosis, and the hemoglobin level started to increase. No rituximab-related side effects were recorded. At the end of treatment DAT became  negative and patient achieved a nodular Partial Remission (nPR). CONCLUSION: Our data showed the safety and efficacy of a rituximab-containing regimen in a life-threatening CLL-related AIHA, refractory to steroid and IVIg therapy. This schedule has allowed the patient to obtain a prompt and dramatic rise in hemoglobin level and a response to both AIHA and CLL."
1012	"Trisomy 12, t(14;18)(q32;q21), and t(8;14)(q24.1;q11.2) were found in a 59-year-old man with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). While trisomy 12  is one of the most common cytogenetic abnormalities in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the t(14;18) rearrangement has a strong association with follicular lymphoma and the t(8;14) is associated with T-cell neoplasia. Occurrence of these three abnormalities in CLL are rare, and the significance of this finding is unclear. Further studies of similar cases may shed additional insight into this finding."
1013	"Recent results suggest that B cells may have multiple pathogenic roles in systemic sclerosis (SSc) and there may be increased incidence of B cell lymphomas in SSc. Here, we assessed the prevalence of lymphomas in a large SSc cohort. We analyzed data of 218 Hungarian patients undergoing follow-ups in our institutions between 1995 and 2007. During this follow-up period, there were three SSc patients, who eventually developed B cell lymphoma. The first case is a woman with diffuse cutaneous form of SSc (dcSSc) including pulmonary, cardiac, gastrointestinal, and renal manifestations and anti-topoisomerase I antibody positivity. B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) with Zap70 expression (Rai I stage) developed 2 years after the onset of SSc. The second case is a woman with dcSSc presenting with pulmonary, cardiac, and gastroesophageal manifestations. Twenty-one months after disease onset, a chronic small lymphocytic B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was diagnosed from retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Our third case is a woman with dcSSc and no internal organ manifestations. She also developed Zap70-positive B-CLL, stage Rai I 9 months after the onset of SSc. Thus, there were three cases of B cell lymphoma among our 218 SSc patients (1.38%). The association of scleroderma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma may be a rather uncommon feature; however, the incidence of lymphoma among Hungarian SSc patients may be 1.9-2.5 times higher than that in the general population. In our three patients, B cell lymphoma developed within 2 years after the onset of SSc. Altered B cell function implicated in the pathogenesis of SSc may lead to the development of lymphoid malignancies."
1015	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common lymphoid malignancy among adults in the Western world. Small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) represents the lymphomatous presentation of CLL. We describe a case in which a diagnosis of laryngeal CLL/SLL was made in an 82-year-old man who had undergone laryngectomy and neck dissection for the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx. We also discuss the implications of simultaneous malignancies of the larynx."
1016	"BACKGROUND: IL-21, a recently described common gamma-chain cytokine, can induce the maturation and enhanced cytotoxicity of natural killer (NK) and CD8(+) T cells and proliferation of CD40-stimulated B cells. Exogenous IL-21 has antitumor effects in murine models via immunological mechanisms. In addition, IL-21 can also directly induce apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells and other B  cell lymphomas. OBJECTIVE/METHODS: We examine preclinical and clinical data regarding anticancer  therapy with IL-21. Published original research, abstracts and ongoing clinical trials are reviewed. A brief summary of IL-21 biology is also provided. CONCLUSION: Three Phase I and II clinical trials with recombinant IL-21 have been completed, providing data on the safety and efficacy in subjects with advanced melanoma, renal cell carcinoma and non-Hodgkin's B cell lymphoma. Numerous additional single-agent and combination therapy clinical trials are ongoing for a variety of human malignancies. B cell malignancies in particular warrant further  clinical investigation."
1017	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disease that typically afflicts older individuals with a median age of diagnosis in the eighth decade of life for which treatments available now are not curative. Although purine analogue based combinations produce complete responses (CRs) in many patients, the use of these combinations has been limited by toxicity including myelosuppression and an increased risk of infectious complications. OBJECTIVE: To identify the role of pentostatin, a specific inhibitor of adenosine deaminase (ADA), in the treatment of CLL. We compare pentostatin to other purine  analogues, most notably fludarabine, with regard to safety and efficacy. Finally, we review the use of pentostatin in other diseases. METHODS: The scope of this review encompasses the history of treatment for CLL as well as the genesis of modern combination chemoimmunotherapy and the advantages of pentostatin within such a treatment program. RESULTS: Combination therapy with pentostatin seems to provide response frequencies comparable to fludarabine based combinations but with less toxicity and with greater ease of administration."
1018	"Distinct genetic abnormalities, such as TP53 deletion at 17p13.1, have been identified as having adverse prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), and conventional cytogenetic studies have shown that TP53 deletion in B-CLL is mainly associated with the loss of 17p due to complex chromosomal rearrangements. We used an integrative genomic approach to investigate the significance of 17p loss in 18 B-CLLs in Binet stage A, carrying  a TP53 monoallelic deletion detected by means of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Genome-wide DNA analysis using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) arrays of 12 of 18 samples showed 17p loss in 11 cases, with breakpoints scattered along the 17p11.2 region. FISH analysis confirmed these findings and revealed 17p loss in a small fraction of leukemic cells in the remaining TP53-deleted case, and it also indicated 17p loss in the six cases not  investigated by means of SNP arrays. Mutations in exons 2-11 of the remaining TP53 allele were found in 9 of 12 deleted samples. Gene-expression profiling of 60 B-CLLs, including seven patients with 17p loss, identified 40 differentially expressed genes in 17p- versus 17p normal samples, 35 of which were downregulated in 17p-tumors. The majority (30 of 35) of these transcripts, including putative tumor suppressor genes, mapped to 17p, thus indicating a remarkable gene-dosage effect. Our data provide evidence that 17p loss may play an additional pathogenetic role in B-CLL and suggest that the concomitant loss of multiple tumor suppressor genes could be responsible for the highly adverse prognostic relevance associated with TP53 loss."
1021	"Gene profiling studies of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has revealed increased expression of Ror1, a cell surface receptor tyrosine kinase. The aim of present study was to analyze gene and protein expression of Ror1 in CLL cells and normal blood leukocytes. Gene expression analysis reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of ROR1 revealed that all patients with CLL (n = 100) spontaneously expressed ROR1 mRNA whereas enriched blood B and T cells as well as granulocytes from healthy donors (n = 10) were negative. A strong nonphysiological activation signal (PMA/ionomycin) was required to induce  expression in vitro in normal lymphocytes. Major genomic aberrations (mutations or truncation) of ROR1 were not observed. Protein expression was analyzed by Western blot using a panel of polyclonal anti-Ror antibodies as well as flow cytometry. Blood lymphocytes from 18/18 CLL patients, but none of the 10 healthy  donors, expressed surface Ror1. The majority of CLL cells exhibited Ror1 surface  expression (71% mean; range 36-92%) with a mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of 20 (range 10-45). The corresponding MFI of CD19 on CLL cells was 26 (range 9-48). There was no difference in the Ror1 protein expression comparing IgVH mutated and unmutated cases as well as progressive and nonprogressive CLL patients. Two different variants of the Ror1 protein, 105 and 130 kDa, were identified. The Ror1 protein expression in patients with CLL but not in normal leukocytes merits  further studies of its role in the pathobiology of CLL, which may provide a basis for development of Ror1 directed targeted therapy."
1022	"The frequency of subtypes of lymphoid neoplasms was determined in a prospective series of 831 patients presenting at 29 Shanghai hospitals over a 4-year period.  Diagnosis and classification was established in a single laboratory according to  the 2001 WHO classification system. The frequency of non-Hodgkin lymphoma was 87.6% (n = 728) and Hodgkin lymphoma was 12.4% (n = 103). The most prevalent NHL  subtypes diagnosed using WHO criteria were diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), precursor B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL). Although a low incidence has been  reported in some Asian populations, CLL/SLL was commonly encountered, indicating  that chronic lymphoid neoplasms are not rare in Shanghai. Consistent with previous reports, our findings indicate a decrease in the frequency of follicular lymphoma and an increase in T cell neoplasms compared to the West. Precursor T lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, anaplastic large T cell lymphoma, aggressive NK  cell leukemia, angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma and peripheral T cell lymphoma  were prominent subtypes of T cell NHL."
1023	"The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of recombinant erythropoietin-beta in the treatment of anemic patients with multiple myeloma (MM), low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). From December 2005 to November 2006, the patients with MM, low-grade NHL, and CLL were enrolled in this study, male or female, aged > or = 18 years, transfusion-dependant, and receiving anti-neoplasia chemotherapy. Recombinant human erythropoietin-beta was used in this study with the dose initiated at 150 IU/kg, thrice a week, subcutaneously. The total treatment duration was 12 weeks. The primary endpoint of the study is response rate (RR), which is defined as hemoglobin increasing > or = 2 g/dL comparing to baseline level, or returning to normal range, without any transfusion within 6 weeks of evaluation. Fifty out of 82 (64.6%) patients enrolled in this study responded to  the treatment and 29 patients had no response. Hypertension (12.2%) is the most common adverse effect; however, all the adverse events were mild, categorized in  NCI grade I or II. We conclude that recombinant erythropoietin-beta was effective in the treatment of anemia of the patients with MM, NHL, and CLL, as well as it is well-tolerated."
1024	"CASE: A 76-year-old gentleman presented with painless jaundice, weight loss, and  anorexia. Computed tomography imaging revealed fullness of the pancreatic head and multiple enlarged retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Cholangiogram revealed a distal common bile duct stricture. Due to concerns of malignancy, the patient underwent operative exploration. Several enlarged lymph nodes in the aortocaval region and a firm hard mass in the pancreatic head were found. Frozen section from one of the lymph nodes was suspicious for low-grade lymphoma. A pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed. Histologic analysis of the pancreatic head revealed a lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate with stromal fibrosis consistent with autoimmune pancreatitis. The retroperitoneal lymph nodes were involved by small lymphocytic lymphoma. DISCUSSION: Autoimmune pancreatitis is the most common benign diagnosis after pancreatic resection for presumed malignancy. It has a well-documented association with autoimmune conditions, such as Sjögren's syndrome, inflammatory  bowel disease, and sclerosing cholangitis. Additionally, chronic lymphocytic leukemia-small lymphocytic lymphoma is often associated with autoimmune phenomena, most notably autoimmune hemolytic anemia. However, an association between autoimmune pancreatitis and small lymphocytic lymphoma has not been previously described. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of a patient with concurrent autoimmune pancreatitis and small lymphocytic lymphoma."
1025	"The mechanisms underlying the frequent association between chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and autoimmune hemolytic anemia are currently unclear. The erythrocyte protein band 3 (B3) is one of the most frequently targeted Ags in autoimmune hemolytic anemia. In this study, we show that CLL cells specifically recognize B3 through a still unidentified receptor. B3 interaction with CLL cells involves the recognition of its N-terminal domain and leads to its internalization. Interestingly, when binding of erythrocyte-derived vesicles as found physiologically in blood was assessed, we observed that CLL cells could only interact with inside-out vesicles, being this interaction strongly dependent on the recognition of the N-terminal portion of B3. We then examined T cell responses to B3 using circulating CLL cells as APCs. Resting B3-pulsed CLL cells  were unable to induce T cell proliferation. However, when deficient costimulation was overcome by CD40 engagement, B3-pulsed CLL cells were capable of activating CD4(+) T cells in a HLA-DR-dependent fashion. Therefore, our work shows that CLL  cells can specifically bind, capture, and present B3 to T cells when in an activated state, an ability that could allow the neoplastic clone to trigger the  autoaggressive process against erythrocytes."
1027	"Array-based comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) provides a powerful method for simultaneous genome-wide scanning and prognostic marker assessment in  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In the current study, commercially available  bacterial artificial chromosome and oligonucleotide array CGH platforms were used to identify chromosomal alterations of prognostic significance in 174 CLL cases.  Tumor genomes were initially analyzed by bacterial artificial chromosome array CGH followed by confirmation and breakpoint mapping using oligonucleotide arrays. Genomic changes involving loci currently interrogated by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) panels were detected in 155 cases (89%) at expected frequencies: 13q14 loss (47%), trisomy 12 (13%), 11q loss (11%), 6q loss (7.5%),  and 17p loss (4.6%). Genomic instability was the second most commonly identified  alteration of prognostic significance with three or more alterations involving loci not interrogated by FISH panels identified in 37 CLL cases (21%). A subset of 48 CLL cases analyzed by six-probe FISH panels (288 total hybridizations) was  concordant with array CGH results for 275 hybridizations (95.5%); 13 hybridizations (4.5%) were discordant because of clonal populations that comprised less than 30% of the sample. Array CGH is a powerful, cost-effective tool for genome-wide risk assessment in the clinical evaluation of CLL."
1028	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by clonal accumulation of CD5(+) CD19(+) B lymphocytes that are arrested in the G(0)/G(1) phase of the cell cycle and fail to undergo apoptosis because of overexpression of the antiapoptotic B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) protein. Oncolytic viruses, such as vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), have emerged as potential anticancer agents that selectively target and kill malignant cells via the intrinsic mitochondrial  pathway. Although primary CLL cells are largely resistant to VSV oncolysis, we postulated that targeting the apoptotic pathway via inhibition of BCL-2 may sensitize CLL cells to VSV oncolysis. In the present study, we examined the capacity of EM20-25--a small-molecule antagonist of the BCL-2 protein--to overcome CLL resistance to VSV oncolysis. We demonstrate a synergistic effect of  the two agents in primary ex vivo CLL cells (combination index of 0.5; P < 0.0001). In a direct comparison of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy volunteers with primary CLL, the two agents combined showed a therapeutic index of 19-fold; furthermore, the combination of VSV and EM20-25 increased apoptotic cell death in Karpas-422 and Granta-519 B-lymphoma cell lines (P < 0.005) via the intrinsic mitochondrial pathway. Mechanistically, EM20-25 blocked  the ability of the BCL-2 protein to dimerize with proapoptotic BAX protein, thus  sensitizing CLL to VSV oncolytic stress. Together, these data indicate that the use of BCL-2 inhibitors may improve VSV oncolysis in treatment-resistant hematological malignancies, such as CLL, with characterized defects in the apoptotic response."
1031	"To eliminate overlap with monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL), some have proposed basing the diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) on B lymphocyte count rather than absolute lymphocyte count (ALC). Such criteria should be based, in part, on patient outcomes. We evaluated the clinical implications of the proposed re-classification in 112 consecutive, newly diagnosed, Rai stage 0 patients. The new criteria would have changed the diagnosis from CLL to MBL in 47/112 (42%) patients. There was no difference in time to treatment (TTT) between those classified as MBL and CLL under the new criteria. In contrast, CD38 predicted TTT (p=0.02) regardless of the proposed new classification. Molecular characteristics of the leukemic clone are a better predictor of progression than an arbitrary ALC or B lymphocyte count threshold."
1032	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a B-cell lymphoid neoplasm with deregulated apoptosis and overexpression of several antiapoptotic BCL-2 proteins. GX15-070/Obatoclax is a small-molecule BH3 mimetic compound that has shown activity against several hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. In the present work, we report that GX15-070 led to the disruption of BCL-2/BIM and MCL-1/BAK complexes in CLL cells, followed by the activation of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. CLL cells showed lower sensitivity to GX15-070 than primary mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) ones, in correlation with higher levels of phosphorylated BCL-2 at serine 70 residue (pBCL-2(Ser70)) in CLL cells. Decrease  in BCL-2 phosphorylation by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 inhibition increased CLL sensitivity to GX15-070, while blocking BCL-2 dephosphorylation using a PP2A antagonist reduced the activity of this BH3 mimetic. GX15-070 activity was increased by cotreatment with the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. However, as proteasome inhibition led to the accumulation of phosphorylated BCL-2, the degree of interaction between GX15-070 and bortezomib was regulated by basal pBCL-2(Ser70) levels. These results support the role of BCL-2 phosphorylation as a mechanism of resistance to BH3 mimetic compounds, and demonstrate that combination approaches including ERK inhibitors could enhance BH3 mimetics activity both alone or in combination with proteasome  inhibitors."
1033	"Since its discovery in follicular lymphoma cells at the breakpoint t(14;18), Bcl-2 has been studied extensively in many basic and clinical science settings. Bcl-2 can locate as an integral mitochondrial membrane component, where its primary role is to block apoptosis by maintaining membrane integrity. Here we show that Bcl-2 also can position on the outer cell surface membrane of B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and certain other leukemias that do not classically possess the chromosomal breakpoint t(14;18). Although low levels of Bcl-2 can be detected on the surface membrane of apparently healthy leukemic and normal B cells, expression of Bcl-2 correlates best with spontaneous or induced apoptosis. Notably, upon induction of apoptosis, B-CLL cells were much more efficient in upregulating surface Bcl-2 than normal B  cells. It is not clear if this surface membrane expression is a passive consequence of the apoptotic process or an active attempt by the B cell to abort  cell death by stabilizing the plasma membrane."
1034	"B-CLL cells are characterized by in vivo resistance to apoptosis due, in part, to the presence of an inducible nitric oxide synthase, iNOS, as the NO released plays anti-apoptotic role, notably by inhibiting caspases. The mechanisms leading to spontaneous expression of iNOS in these cells are presently unknown. The restricted use of some V(H) sub-groups and the sequences of the monoclonal immunoglobulins of the B-cell receptor expressed by the leukemia cells suggested  that the latter have encountered specific auto-antigens and/or microbial derived  antigens. Their binding to the BCR provides an activation signal resulting in enhanced survival, hence could be involved in the aetiology of the disease. At the interface of innate and cognate immunity, Toll-like receptors, TLR, recognize PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns) expressed by various bacteria and  virus as well as some self-antigens. We thus hypothesized that TLR were involved  in the early steps of B-CLL oncogenesis, notably apoptosis resistance through the induction of iNOS expression and the production of NO. Our results show that B-CLL cells express TLR-7 and TLR-9. Incubation of B-CLL cells with TLR-7 agonists effectively resulted in an increased resistance to apoptosis that was reverted with the NOS inhibitor L-NMMA. This resistance was associated with enhanced iNOS expression (protein and mRNA) and NO release, stimulation of NF-kappaB activation, phosphorylation of I kappaB alpha, all these events being suppressed with wedelolactone or Bay 11-7085, two inhibitors of I kappaB alpha phosphorylation. Our present data thus suggest that TLR-7 signaling stimulates apoptosis resistance, notably through an NF-kappaB-dependent activation of the NO pathway."
1035	"The status of the immune system of patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is not yet sufficiently characterized. Clinically, B-CLL patients present immunodeficiency increasing along with disease progression and signs of autoimmunity. In the current study, we evaluated the expression of FOXP3 in CD4+CD25hi T regulatory lymphocytes (Treg) and their influence on immune response against tumor and viral antigens in the complex system of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In 80 B-CLL patients, the frequency of Treg (CD4+CD25hi  FOXP3+) cells was significantly higher in B-CLL patients when compared to healthy volunteers (HV) and increased with the progression of the disease (median: 8.24%  in stage A, 11.24% in stage B and 12.57% in stage C according to the Binet classification). The frequency of Treg showed no correlation with prognostic markers such as ZAP-70, CD38 and HLA-G. Notably, Treg frequency correlated with serum levels of TNF (r(2)=0.45, p=0.001). T-cell immune responses against epitopes derived from the tumor-associated antigens survivin, fibromodulin and RHAMM as well as from the influenza matrix protein were evaluated. Functionally,  higher frequencies of Treg correlated with decreased T-cell responses against viral and tumor antigens. In conclusion, we detected higher frequencies of Treg in B-CLL patients than in HV. Furthermore, Treg constitute the crucial mechanism  of immunosuppression in B-CLL patients."
1036	"Src family kinases (SFKs) were described to be overexpressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We wished to examine the effects of the Src and Abl kinase inhibitor dasatinib on the intracellular signaling and survival of CLL cells. Dasa-tinib showed a dose- and time-dependent reduction of global tyrosine  phosphorylation and of activating phosphotyrosine levels of SFKs. Treatment with  100 nM dasatinib led to decreased levels of the activated, phosphorylated forms of Akt, Erk1/2, and p38, and induced PARP cleavage through caspase activity. In Mec1 and JVM-3 cell lines, dasatinib increased p53 protein levels and inhibited proliferation. In freshly isolated CLL cells, dasatinib reduced the expression of Mcl-1 and Bcl-x(L). Combination of 5 microM dasatinib and fludarabine increased the apoptosis induction of each by approximately 50%. In 15 primary CLL samples,  cells with unmutated immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgV(H)) genes were more sensitive to dasatinib than those with mutated IgV(H) genes (P = .002). In summary, dasatinib shows potent inhibitory effects on the survival of CLL cells in vitro, most prominently in samples obtained from patients with unfavorable prognostic features."
1037	"Chemotherapy with alemtuzumab and the combination of cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, oncovin, and prednisone (CHOP) has become experimental trial therapy  for aggressive T-cell lymphoma. Several multicenter phase 3 trials will incorporate this scheme. As part of an ongoing phase 2 trial in which we recently treated 20 patients with 8 cycles of CHOP every 2 weeks with 3 additional doses of 30 mg alemtuzumab per cycle, we observed the development of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive lymphoproliferative disease, after completion of the immunochemotherapy in 3 patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma. Because the occurrence of EBV-positive lymphoproliferative disease is rare after alemtuzumab  monotherapy, such as is given for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, we think that early reporting of this potential side effect is warranted. It may be caused by intrinsic T-cell defects in patients with T-cell lymphoma, or by the combination  of alemtuzumab with CHOP chemotherapy."
1039	"Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with anti-CD20 mAb rituximab (RTX) leads to substantial CD20 loss on circulating malignant B cells soon after  completion of the RTX infusion. This CD20 loss, which we term shaving, can compromise the therapeutic efficacy of RTX, and in vitro models reveal that shaving is mediated by effector cells which express Fc gammaRI. THP-1 monocytes and PBMC promote shaving, but PBMC also kill antibody-opsonized cells by antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), a reaction generally considered  to be due to NK cells. We hypothesized that within PBMC, monocytes and NK cells would have substantially different and competing activities with respect ADCC or  shaving, thereby either enhancing or inhibiting the therapeutic action of RTX. We measured ADCC and RTX removal from RTX-opsonized Daudi cells promoted by PBMC, or mediated by NK cells and monocytes. NK cells take up RTX and CD20 from RTX-opsonized B cells, and mediate ADCC. PBMC depleted of NK cells show little ADCC activity, whereas PBMC depleted of monocytes have greater ADCC than the PBMC. Pre-treatment of RTX-opsonized B cells with THP-1 cells or monocytes suppresses NK cell-mediated ADCC, and blockade of Fc gammaRI on monocytes or THP-1 cells abrogates their ability to suppress ADCC. Our results indicate NK cells are the principal cells in PBMC that kill RTX-opsonized B cells, and that monocytes can suppress ADCC by promoting shaving. These results suggest that RTX-based immunotherapy of cancer may be enhanced based on paradigms which include infusion of compatible NK cells and inhibition of monocyte shaving activity."
1040	"INTRODUCTION: Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia of the B-cell-lineage is  strongly based upon clinical staging because of the heterogeneous clinical course of this disease. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a 62-year-old patient with newly diagnosed chronic lymphocytic leukemia of the B-cell-lineage who did not respond to several chemotherapy regimens including chlorambucil, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, developing a marked neutropenia and thrombocytopenia with life-threatening infections. Further chemotherapy appeared not feasible because of bone marrow toxicity. The patient was treated with 600 mg/m2 rituximab weekly followed by eight courses of biweekly therapy and then by long-term maintenance therapy, achieving almost complete remission of the symptoms and disease control. CONCLUSION: After resistance to standard chemotherapy with chlorambucil and fludarabine, a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia of the B-cell-lineage was successfully treated with rituximab."
1042	"To assess the role of interferon regulatory factor (IRF) 8 in B-cell development  and lymphomagenesis, we studied its expression in reactive lymphoid tissues, its  relationship to other B-cell transcription factors, and its expression in a series of 232 B-cell tumors and 30 cell lines representing a variety of B-cell developmental stages. We found that although IRF8 was detectable in most reactive B-cells, its expression levels differed with developmental stage. Germinal center B cells contained the highest levels of IRF8, with lower levels seen in mantle and marginal zone B cells and none in plasma cells. IRF8 was coexpressed with PAX-5, Pu.1, and B-cell lymphoma (BCL)-6, and similar to BCL-6, was absent from the small population of IRF4-positive germinal center B cells thought to be committed to postgerminal center developmental programs. Similarly, IRF8 was most strongly expressed in lymphomas of germinal center origin with lower levels present in mantle cell lymphomas, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and marginal zone lymphomas, and no expression observed in plasmacytic/plasmablastic neoplasms. The reciprocal expression pattern with IRF4 in reactive tissues was generally maintained in lymphomas with some exceptions. These results suggest an important  role for IRF8 during germinal center B-cell development and in related lymphomas, and provide a new diagnostic marker helpful in distinguishing B-cell non-Hodgkin  lymphoma subtypes."
1043	"Although CD38, a marker of poor prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL),  is known primarily as an ecto-enzyme, it has also been ascribed a receptor function. Interaction with its proposed ligand CD31 expressed on nurse-like cells would result in proliferative and survival-signals. Yet, in CLL, both homotypic and heterotypic CD31-CD38 interactions are expected to be rather ubiquitous. We analyzed whether CD38-CD31 interactions result in proliferative and antiapoptotic signals. We found a high expression of CD31 on CLL, irrespective of CD38 expression. Coculture of CD38(high) CLL with endothelial cells or CD31 transfected fibroblasts, with or without blocking CD31 or CD38 antibodies, did not result in increased survival or proliferation. Analysis of gene expression of most known regulators of apoptosis revealed no influence of coculture with CD31-expressing feeder cells. In conclusion, our data do not support an important contribution of CD38 triggering by CD31 to the proliferative and antiapoptotic state of the leukemic clone."
1044	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the surface expression of CD20, CD5 antigens, as well as the receptor CD40. Activation of CD40 by its ligand (CD40L) induces proliferation and rescues the cells from spontaneous and chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. CD40 activation also induces secretion of cytokines, such as IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha, IL-8, and GM-CSF, which are involved in tumor cell survival, migration, and interaction with cells in the tumor microenvironment. Here we demonstrate that in primary B-CLL tumor cells, the novel antagonist anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody, HCD122, inhibits CD40L-induced activation of signaling pathways, proliferation and survival, and secretion of cytokines. Furthermore, HCD122 is also a potent mediator of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), lysing B-CLL cells more efficiently than rituximab in vitro, despite a significantly higher number of cell surface CD20 binding sites compared with CD40. Unlike rituximab, however, HCD122 (formerly CHIR-12.12) does not internalize upon binding to the cells. Our  data suggest that HCD122 may inhibit B-CLL growth by blocking CD40 signaling and  by ADCC-mediated cell lysis."
1045	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients exhibit a variable clinical course. To investigate the association between clinicobiologic features and responsiveness of CLL cells to anti-IgM stimulation, we evaluated gene expression changes and modifications in cell-cycle distribution, proliferation, and apoptosis of IgV(H) mutated (M) and unmutated (UM) samples upon BCR cross-linking. Unsupervised analysis highlighted a different response profile to  BCR stimulation between UM and M samples. Supervised analysis identified several  genes modulated exclusively in the UM cases upon BCR cross-linking. Functional gene groups, including signal transduction, transcription, cell-cycle regulation, and cytoskeleton organization, were up-regulated upon stimulation in UM cases. Cell-cycle and proliferation analyses confirmed that IgM cross-linking induced a  significant progression into the G(1) phase and a moderate increase of proliferative activity exclusively in UM patients. Moreover, we observed only a small reduction in the percentage of subG(0/1) cells, without changes in apoptosis, in UM cases; contrariwise, a significant increase of apoptotic levels  was observed in stimulated cells from M cases. These results document that a differential genotypic and functional response to BCR ligation between IgV(H) M and UM cases is operational in CLL, indicating that response to antigenic stimulation plays a pivotal role in disease progression."
1046	"Alkylating agents and purine analogues have been the mainstays of therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) for decades. The past decade witnessed the general clinical use of monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab and alemtuzumab,  both as single agents and in combination regimens with cytotoxic drugs, for previously untreated and relapsed CLL. First-line chemoimmunotherapy regimens combining rituximab and purine analogues have greatly improved initial response rates and progression-free survival. Despite these advances in first-line therapy, patients with CLL invariably experience relapse and often acquire high-risk chromosomal abnormalities, such as del(11q22) and del(17p13), which result in resistance to current therapies. Patients who are refractory to fludarabine-based therapy have a median survival of <1 year. Therefore, new agents with novel mechanisms of action are needed for the treatment of patients with relapsed CLL, particularly for patients with high-risk genetic features. Recent clinical studies have examined the tolerability and efficacy of several novel agents in relapsed CLL: (1) the alkylator bendamustine, (2) the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor flavopiridol, (3) the immunomodulating drug lenalidomide, (4) the bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide oblimersen, and (5) the Bcl-2 small-molecule inhibitor obatoclax. While these agents have demonstrated exciting clinical activity against genetically high-risk CLL, they have also induced toxicities that have not been commonly observed with previous CLL therapies. The most notable toxicities have been tumor lysis syndrome and tumor flare, which are potentially serious or even fatal complications of these new therapies. Thus, further studies are needed to define these agents' biologic mechanism(s) of action, clinical activity, and safety."
1047	"The anti-CD20, B-cell-specific mAb rituximab (RTX) has been approved for treatment of non-Hodgkin's B cell lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis. Under conditions of high B cell burden, exhaustion of the body's effector mechanisms, for example, NK-cell-mediated killing, may lead to substantial decreases in the immunotherapeutic efficacy of this mAb. Moreover, RTX treatment of patients with  chronic lymphocytic leukemia and high levels of circulating B cells can lead to removal of CD20 from the cells, thus allowing them to persist and resist clearance. RTX therapy for several autoimmune diseases has proven to be effective, but in numerous instances there has been little correlation between reductions in disease activity and changes in titers of pathogenic autoantibodies. This paradox may be explained by a separate mechanism: Binding of RTX to B cells generates immune complexes that act as decoys to attract monoycte/macrophages and thus reduce their inflammatory activity in certain autoantibody-mediated diseases. Several second-generation anti-CD20 mAbs with enhanced cytotoxic action have been developed and are being tested in the clinic  for treatment of cancer and autoimmune diseases. The application of these mAbs, potentially in combination with immune effector modifying drugs, may successfully address the shortcomings of current anti-CD20 immunotherapy."
1048	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Monoallelic deletion of 13q14.3 (13q14x1) is the most common abnormality in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). As a sole alteration, it predicts a favorable outcome. Biallelic 13q14.3 (13q14x2) deletion or concomitant 13q14x1/13q14x2 has been scarcely evaluated in the literature. We present the clinical, cytogenetic and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of six CLL patients with normal karyotypes and 13q14x2 and their comparison to cases with 13q14x1 as a single abnormality. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 103 CLL patients were studied. Cytogenetic and FISH analysis were performed on stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes. Specific fluorescence DNA probes for CLL were used. RESULTS: Six out of 103 (5.8%) patients showed normal karyotypes and 13q14x2. It  was observed as a single alteration in one patient and combined with 13q14x1 in five cases. Biallelic clones were larger than monoallelic ones in 3/5 patients (60%). The comparison of clinical and hematological data between 13q14x1 and 13q14x2 groups showed progression of the disease in all 13q14x2 patients respect  to 12/32 (37.5%) cases with 13q14x1 (P = 0.008), significant differences in the distribution by Rai stage (P = 0.042) and a tendency of a higher lactate dehydrogenase level in 13q14x2 patients (P = 0.054). Treatment free survival for  13q14x2 group was 28.5 months, shorter than those observed in patients with 13q14x1 alone (49 months). CONCLUSIONS: Our data would suggest that 13q14x2 could represent a more aggressive FISH anomaly than 13q14x1 alone, probably as a consequence of clonal evolution and/or due to the complete inactivation of this critical region by mean of more complex mechanisms."
1049	"A total of 178 bone marrow samples were taken for minimal residual disease (MRD)  analysis after 34 stem cell transplantations for poor-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and 86 of them were analyzed in parallel by flow cytometry and allele-specific oligonucleotide-PCR (ASO-PCR). ASO primer was successfully designed for all patients whose frozen diagnosis samples were available. Flow cytometry and ASO-PCR were concordant, i.e. both either positive or both negative, in 78% of the analyses. Flow cytometry did not detect MRD in any of the samples that were PCR-negative cases. In contrast, ASO-PCR detected MRD in samples that were negative for MRD by flow cytometry in 22% of the analyses. In one patient, the immunophenotype but not the IgV(H) gene sequence had changed during a course of the disease, and MRD could not be followed by flow cytometry.  In the remaining cases, the discrepancy was due to a higher sensitivity of ASO-PCR. Autologous stem cell transplantation resulted in clinical complete response in 87% (20/23) of the patients. By flow cytometry, 35% (8/23) of autotransplanted patients became MRD-negative, but only 12.5% (2/16) PCR-negative (sensitivity of ASO-PCR <0.001 and <0.01, respectively). All allotransplanted patients achieved or maintained hematological CR, and five out of nine patients (56%) became PCR-negative (sensitivity of PCR between <0.001 and <0.003), two of  them having non-myeloablative conditioning. None of the patients who became PCR-negative after allogeneic transplantation have relapsed."
1050	"Denileukin diftitox (Ontak) is a novel recombinant fusion protein consisting of peptide sequences for the enzymatically active and membrane translocation domain  of diphtheria toxin linked to human IL-2. Denileukin diftitox specifically binds  to IL-2 receptors on the cell membrane, is internalized via receptor-mediated endocytosis and inhibits protein synthesis by ADP ribosylation of elongation factor 2, resulting in cell death. This article focuses on the clinical trial that led to the US FDA approval of the drug for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in 1999, and other investigational studies for hematologic malignancies, recurrent and refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma, graft-versus-host disease and autoimmune disease, demonstrating the activity and  adverse effects of the drug."
1051	"Screening for gene copy-number alterations (CNAs) has improved by applying genome-wide microarrays, where SNP arrays also allow analysis of loss of heterozygozity (LOH). We here analyzed 10 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples using four different high-resolution platforms: BAC arrays (32K), oligonucleotide arrays (185K, Agilent), and two SNP arrays (250K, Affymetrix and  317K, Illumina). Cross-platform comparison revealed 29 concordantly detected CNAs, including known recurrent alterations, which confirmed that all platforms are powerful tools when screening for large aberrations. However, detection of 32 additional regions present in 2-3 platforms illustrated a discrepancy in detection of small CNAs, which often involved reported copy-number variations. LOH analysis using dChip revealed concordance of mainly large regions, but showed numerous, small nonoverlapping regions and LOH escaping detection. Evaluation of  baseline variation and copy-number ratio response showed the best performance for the Agilent platform and confirmed the robustness of BAC arrays. Accordingly, these platforms demonstrated a higher degree of platform-specific CNAs. The SNP arrays displayed higher technical variation, although this was compensated by high density of elements. Affymetrix detected a higher degree of CNAs compared to Illumina, while the latter showed a lower noise level and higher detection rate in the LOH analysis. Large-scale studies of genomic aberrations are now feasible, but new tools for LOH analysis are requested."
1052	"BACKGROUND: Immunoglobulin gene somatic hypermutation is a biologically relevant  and clinically useful prognostic factor in different types of low-grade B-cell lymphomas, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia, mantle cell lymphoma and splenic marginal zone lymphoma. DESIGN AND METHODS: With the aim of identifying surrogate markers of somatic hypermutation, a combined investigation of IgV(H) mutational status and expression profiles of 93 samples from patients with small B-cell lymphoma was performed. RESULTS: The analysis identified an somatic hypermutation signature of genes involved in the regulation of gene transcription, DNA repair and replication, and chromosome maintenance. Eight of these genes were subjected to protein analysis using tissue microarrays, for a set of 118 cases. We found a clear link between RAD51C and CDK7 protein expression and somatic hypermutation status, in that positive expression of either marker was significantly associated with a mutated  status (p<0.003). We also found that positive expression of TFDP1 and POLA was significantly associated with ongoing somatic hypermutation (p<0.001). To assess  the potential clinical applicability of these somatic hypermutation markers, we studied a series of cases of mantle cell lymphoma included in a tissue microarray. The expression of RCC1 and CDK7, separately and together, was found to be significantly associated with longer overall survival. CONCLUSIONS: An somatic hypermutation signature has been identified for different types of small B-cell lymphoma. This has a potential mechanistic and diagnostic value."
1053	"Computerized image analysis may add to morphological evaluation by turning qualitative data into quantitative values. In this study, image analysis program  was used to quantitate cytological parameters of lymphocytes in B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (B-PLL) were selected to represent typically small, medium, and large-sized lymphocytes, respectively. Image analysis was performed to determine the morphological parameters. A set of  measurements was generated for quantitation of total cell area, cell diameter, cytoplasm area, nuclear area, nuclear/cell ratio, and nuclear density. The quantitated parameters substantiated morphological characteristics of the tumor cells. Comparative assessments demonstrated that CLL, MCL, and PLL can be differentiated by the quantitative descriptors. The results from image analysis may assist in defining morphological criteria and in developing quantitative cell morphology."
1054	"Artificial T cell receptor (TCR) ligands can be used to direct virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) towards tumor cells. Because of their size, these constructs may differ from cognate peptides in their ability to induce T cell activation. We here analysed signalling outcomes upon synapse formation between human cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific CTL and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells through targeted complexes (TC) containing anti-CD20 single-chain variable  fragment and biotinylated major histocompatibility complex class I molecules presenting peptides from CMVpp65. TC coated CLL cells were effectively lysed by CMVpp65-specific CTL but induced less interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) production than peptide loaded targets. Confocal microscopy revealed that TC induced a redistribution of TCR/CD3 but not CD2 towards the immunological synapse. Furthermore, morphological examination of immunological synapses showed smaller and 'patchy' interactions between TC coated B cells and CTL as compared with peptide coated targets. Finally, pre-incubation of CTL with CD2 antibodies led to an Fc-dependent redistribution of CD2 into TC-induced synapses and restored IFN-gamma production by CMV-specific CTL. Thus, redistribution of CD2 towards the immunological synapse appears to be essential for full T cell activation. However, CD2 triggering is not required for efficient lysis of tumor cells, demonstrating that CTL require only minimal stimulation to release their cytotoxic content."
1055	"Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) comprise the group of structurally diverse but similarly acting compounds that are used for relieving signs and symptoms of inflammation, especially in treatment of rheumatic diseases. Recent reports suggested potential association between regular use of NSAIDs and the risk of development of hematological malignancies. However, the data distinctly differ depending on type of NSAID used, period of its administration and type of  malignancy. Regular use of aspirin and other NSAIDs was shown to correlate with reduced risk of lymphoid malignancies. Frequent use of aspirin was found to be associated with decreased risk of acute leukemia (AL) development. In contrast, correlation between long-term acetaminophen usage and increased incidence of AL and multiple myeloma (MM) was indicated. On the other hand, NSAIDs were found to  exert anti-cancer effects, inhibiting proliferation and invasive growth or inducing cell apoptosis in several tumors, including hematologic malignancies. One of those agents, non-cyclooxygenase 2-inhibiting R-enantiomer of etodolac (SDX-101), exerts cytotoxic effects against chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and MM cells, and is currently investigated in phase II clinical trial in CLL. The indole-pyran analogue of SDX-101, SDX-308 (CEP-18082), showed more potent cytotoxicity than SDX-101 against MM cells and inhibited osteoclast formation and activity of mature osteoclasts. Thus, SDX-308 may be an ideal agent for bone disease in MM and related diseases. Another analogue of SDX-101, SDX-309, showed  also significant anti-tumor activity in first preclinical studies. The potential  role of NSAIDs in prevention and treatment of hematologic malignancies is the subject of this review."
1056	"OBJECTIVE: Despite important progress in its management, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable with standard therapies. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) is a potentially curative therapy for patients with CLL. Polyclonal antithymocyte (or anti-T-cell) globulins (ATGs) are used for conditioning in allogeneic SCT mainly due to their anti-T-cell activity. ATGs however, contain antibodies targeting antigens expressed on various hematopoietic cells including B cells. METHODS: We assessed anti-CLL activity of two commercially available ATG preparations at clinically relevant concentrations (10-100 microg/ml) in CLL samples from 16 patients. Cytotoxicity was determined by staining with 7-amino-actinomycin D (7-AAD), annexin V and flow cytometry. RESULTS: Both ATG preparations induced marked complement-independent dose-dependent cytotoxicity in all samples. Addition of complement strongly enhanced the cytotoxic effect of both ATG preparations significantly. ATG-induced complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) was at least as high as that observed with Alemtuzumab. Both ATGs enhanced the cytotoxic effect of Fludarabine. CONCLUSION: ATG is an effective agent against CLL in vitro. We suggest that this  potential be taken into consideration when developing stem cell transplantation protocols for patients with CLL."
1057	"In this study 10(7) peripheral blood mononuclear cells including on average 78.56% CD19+/CD5+ lymphocytes were irradiated, and then administered intradermally as an anti-cancer vaccine to seventeen patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) at early stages (twelve injections, four at a weekly interval followed by eight vaccines given every two weeks). In eight out of seventeen patients, in the first two injections, irradiated leukemic cells were mixed with bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) to improve the efficacy of therapy by additional induction of innate immunity. A hematological improvement (as defined  by a >25% reduction of leukocyte count) to autologous leukemic cell vaccines was  observed in 5/17 patients, stabilisation of disease in 5/17 patients and in 7/17  patients there was no response to immunotherapy. In seven patients significant increase of the lymphocyte doubling time was noted (p=0.02). There was no impact  of BCG for immune responses or clinical outcome of vaccinated patients, but there was a significant increase of the absolute counts of CD3+ as well as of CD3+/CD4+ and CD3+/CD8+ T cells during the vaccination period. We observed a significant improvement of the phagocytic function of autologous dendritic cells generated from peripheral blood monocytes obtained from patients with B-CLL after the end of immunotherapy (p=0.006). An association between the clinical outcome and the percentage of leukemic cells positive for expression of ZAP-70 and CD38 was noted. In conclusion, our results demonstrated the feasibility and safety of autologous irradiated leukemic cell immunotherapy in patients with B-CLL. As we noted immunological, and to some extent, clinical responses, this approach merits further investigation, including the use of adjuvants other than BCG."
1058	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) results from the accumulation of malignant immunologically incompetent lymphocytes. A routine full blood count of a single patient revealed that he had CLL. The daily intake of 700ml of fresh bovine milk  resulted in a decrease in the lymphocyte count from 85.5x10(9)/l to 12.5x10(9)/l  over a period of 5 years. The aim was to establish which constituent(s) in milk would be responsible for the decline of the lymphocyte count. It was found that the higher vitamin D constituent in the milk, the lower the lymphocyte count. Whilst the milk from large dairy farms which use supplements in the feed in order to increase milk production, considerably decreased the lymphocyte count, the milk from small dairy farms, which do not supplement, had hardly any effect. The  present study indicates that gossypol in cottonseed cake and oil are potentially  responsible for the decrease in white blood cell count. It appears that gossypol  is a very powerful anti-neoplastic agent. Free gossypol (Fig. 1) is a toxic phenolic compound which becomes detoxified in ruminants by binding to milk proteins, but gossypol is still an active inhibitor of tumour growth in the excreted milk."
1059	"Radiation effects on cancer risks in a cohort of Taiwanese residents who received protracted low-dose-rate gamma-radiation exposures from (60)Co-contaminated reinforcing steel used to build their apartments were studied, and risks were compared to those in other radiation-exposed cohorts. Analyses were based on a more extended follow-up of the cohort population in which 117 cancer cases diagnosed between 1983 and 2005 among 6,242 people with an average excess cumulative exposure estimate of about 48 mGy. Cases were identified from Taiwan's National Cancer Registry. Radiation effects on cancer risk were estimated using proportional hazards models and were summarized in terms of the hazard ratio associated with a 100-mGy increase in dose (HR(100mGy)). A significant radiation  risk was observed for leukemia excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia (HR(100mGy) 1.19, 90% CI 1.01-1.31). Breast cancer exhibited a marginally significant dose response (HR(100mGy) 1.12, 90% CI 0.99-1.21). The results further strengthen the  association between protracted low-dose radiation and cancer risks, especially for breast cancers and leukemia, in this unique cohort population."
1062	"To identify novel genes involved in the molecular pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) we performed a serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) in CLL cells, and compared this with healthy B cells (nCD19(+)). We found  a high level of similarity among CLL subtypes, but a comparison of CLL versus nCD19(+) libraries revealed 55 genes that were over-represented and 49 genes that were down-regulated in CLL. A gene ontology analysis revealed that TOSO, which plays a functional role upstream of Fas extrinsic apoptosis pathway, was over-expressed in CLL cells. This finding was confirmed by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in 78 CLL and 12 nCD19(+) cases (P < .001). We validated expression using flow cytometry and tissue microarray and demonstrated a 5.6-fold increase of TOSO protein in circulating CLL cells (P = .013) and lymph nodes (P = .006). Our SAGE results have demonstrated that TOSO is a novel over-expressed antiapoptotic gene in CLL."
1063	"BACKGROUND: For the current study, the authors sought to determine whether administration of multiple-dose granulocyte-macrophage-colony-stimulating factor  (GM-CSF) could improve response to standard 23-valent polysaccharide pneumococcal vaccine (PPV) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: Patients were allocated randomly to receive PPV either alone or with 3 doses of GM-CSF (250 microg) given before or after vaccination. Serum was obtained before, 4 weeks after, and 12 weeks after vaccination for antibody determination. Thirty-two patients with CLL were given PPV. They were randomized  to receive 3 doses of GM-CSF either before or after vaccination or to receive no  GM-CSF. RESULTS: A 4-fold rise in immunoglobulin G (IgG) to capsular polysaccharides from Streptococcus pneumoniae types 4, 6B, 9V, 14, 19F, and 23F occurred in <10% of patients in each of the 3 groups. There were no differences in geometric mean IgG levels in any of the 3 groups 4 weeks or 12 weeks after vaccination. CONCLUSIONS: In patients with CLL, the response to pure polysaccharide pneumococcal vaccine was low despite immune enhancement with multiple doses of GM-CSF. In all patients, reactogenicity was minor."
1064	"PURPOSE: Lenalidomide has significant activity in myelodysplastic syndromes, multiple myeloma, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). In previous studies, natural  killer (NK) cell expansion by lenalidomide was shown to enhance the cytotoxic effect of rituximab. This study assessed the ability of lenalidomide to enhance antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in rituximab-treated NHL cell lines and primary tumor cells from patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) in vitro. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: An in vitro ADCC system was used to assess the ability of lenalidomide to enhance human NK cell and monocyte function in response to rituximab. RESULTS: Lenalidomide directly enhanced IFN-gamma production via Fc-gamma receptor-mediated signaling in response to IgG. It was also a potent enhancer of  NK cell-mediated and monocyte-mediated tumor cell ADCC for a variety of rituximab-treated NHL cell lines in vitro, an effect that was dependent on the presence of antibody and either interleukin-2 or interleukin-12. Lenalidomide also enhanced the ability of NK cells to kill primary tumor cells derived from three patients with B-CLL who have been treated previously with fludarabine plus  cyclophosphamide. Enhanced NK cell ADCC was associated with enhanced granzyme B and Fas ligand expression and could be inhibited by a granzyme B inhibitor and partially inhibited by antibody to FasL. Enhanced NK cell Fc-gamma receptor signaling is associated with enhanced phosphorylated extracellular signal-related kinase levels leading to enhanced effector function. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that lenalidomide has the potential to enhance the rituximab-induced killing of NHL cell lines and primary B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells via a NK cell-mediated and monocyte-mediated ADCC mechanism in vitro, providing a strong rationale for the combination of lenalidomide with IgG1 antibodies to target tumor-specific antigens in patients with cancer."
1065	"Recurrent genomic alterations, mainly losses and gains of specific chromosomes and/or regions, in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are recognized as important independent predictors of prognosis and disease progression. The current standard clinical practice for identifying these alterations is chromosome analysis and in situ hybridization with probes targeting 4-5 chromosome regions. We sought to apply array comparative genomic hybridization (array-CGH) technology for the simultaneous detection of genomic imbalances of all loci implicated in CLL. DNA from enriched B-cells from CLL patients were analyzed by array-CGH on a customized CLL BAC array. Copy number changes were detected in 87% of samples with a sensitivity of 100% in samples with clonal abnormalities present in at least 23% of the cells. Furthermore, in nine cases genomic alterations were observed that were undetectable by standard cytogenetic and/or FISH analyses. One of these patients had a 13q14 deletion that was missed by the clinical CLL FISH panel probe set. Our results suggest that a subset of potentially significant genomic alterations in CLL is being missed by the current available techniques. Furthermore, this pilot study clearly shows the robustness, high sensitivity, and high specificity for the targeted CLL microarray analysis as well as the potential for use in routine screening in CLL."
1067	"Previously, we identified noscapine as a small molecule inhibitor of the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 pathway in hypoxic human glioma cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Noscapine is a nontoxic ingredient in cough medicine currently used in clinical trials for patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia to assess antitumor efficacy. Here, we have evaluated the sensitivity of four human glioma cell lines to noscapine-induced apoptosis. Noscapine was a potent inhibitor of proliferation and inducer of apoptosis. Induction of apoptosis was associated with activation of the c-jun N-terminal kinase signaling pathway concomitant with inactivation of the extracellular signal regulated kinase signaling pathway and phosphorylation of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2. Noscapine-induced apoptosis was associated with the release of mitochondrial proteins apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and/or cytochrome c. In some glioma cell lines, only AIF release occurred without cytochrome c release or poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage. Knock-down of AIF  decreased noscapine-induced apoptosis. Our results suggest the potential importance of noscapine as a novel agent for use in patients with glioblastoma owing to its low toxicity profile and its potent anticancer activity."
1071	"The prognosis of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is extremely variable. Prognostication of patients with CLL has been classically based on clinical parameters. In the last few years, several biologic markers such as cytogenetics, IgVH mutations, CD38 and ZAP-70 expression in leukemic cells have shown to offer important prognostic information. However, before being incorporated into daily practice these markers require standardization and validation in prospective trials. Meanwhile, prognosis of patients with CLL should remain to be based on clinical stages and other easily obtainable clinical parameters. An important area of research is the identification of markers useful for predicting response to therapy. Among them, 17p- reflecting p53 abnormalities is particularly important. Also relevant is 11q- pointing out to ATM defects. The correlation of IgVH mutations, ZAP-70 and CD38 expression with response is unclear and needs further investigation. Finally, there is increasing evidence that response to therapy, particularly when all measurable disease is eradicated, is associated with longer survival."
1072	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Immune escape by tumors can occur by multiple mechanisms, each a significant barrier to immunotherapy. We previously demonstrated that upregulation of the immunosuppressive molecule CD200 on chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells inhibits Th1 cytokine production required for an effective cytotoxic T cell response. CD200 expression on human tumor cells in animal models prevents human lymphocytes from rejecting the tumor; treatment with an antagonistic anti-CD200 antibody restored lymphocyte-mediated tumor growth inhibition. The current study evaluated CD200 expression on solid cancers, and its effect on immune response in vitro. METHODS AND RESULTS: CD200 protein was expressed on the surface of 5/8 ovarian cancer, 2/4 melanoma, 2/2 neuroblastoma and 2/3 renal carcinoma cell lines tested, but CD200 was absent on prostate, lung, breast, astrocytoma, or glioblastoma cell lines. Evaluation of patient samples by immunohistochemistry showed strong, membrane-associated CD200 staining on malignant cells of melanoma  (4/4), ovarian cancer (3/3) and clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) (2/3), but also on normal ovary and kidney. CD200 expression on melanoma metastases was  determined by RT-QPCR, and was found to be significantly higher in jejunum metastases (2/2) and lung metastases (2/6) than in normal samples. Addition of CD200-expressing, but not CD200-negative solid tumor cell lines to mixed lymphocyte reactions downregulated the production of Th1 cytokines. Inclusion of  antagonistic anti-CD200 antibody restored Th1 cytokine responses. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that melanoma, ccRCC and ovarian tumor cells can express CD200, thereby potentially suppressing anti-tumor immune responses. CD200 blockade with an antagonistic antibody may permit an effective anti-tumor immune  response in these solid tumor types."
1073	"Immunotherapy with rituximab alone or in conjunction with chemotherapy has significantly improved the treatment outcome of B-cell lymphoma patients. Nevertheless, a subpopulation of patients does not respond to rituximab. The reason for treatment failure as well as the exact mechanism of action is still uncertain. The function of rituximab has long been associated with the partitioning of CD20 molecules to lipid microdomains. We now show that the extent of CD20 recruitment to lipid rafts correlates with response to rituximab. In addition, expression of the raft-associated sphingolipid GM1 on lymphoma cells is associated with the susceptibility of lymphoma cells to rituximab. Furthermore, we show substantially different GM1 expression in various primary non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Whereas chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells have a low GM1 expression, marginal zone lymphoma cells exhibit much higher levels. Differences  were not only detected among various lymphoma subgroups but also within one lymphoma subtype. Interestingly, whereas CLL cells from patients with high GM1 expression responded to rituximab, patients with low GM1 expressing CLL cells did not. These data show the importance of membrane microdomains in the effect of rituximab and may offer a predictive factor for the responsiveness of lymphoma cells to rituximab."
1075	"BACKGROUND: Familial chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has the most frequent familial aggregation among hematological malignancies. Familial CLL families have been studied to identify susceptibility genes and other factors that contribute in the etiology of CLL. To date no study has been conducted to evaluate and compare patterns of cell surface antigen expression in familial CLL and sporadic  CLL. METHODS: The pattern of cell surface antigen expression was studied in familial and sporadic CLL to determine if unique identifiers of familial CLL could be detected. Survival in familial CLL verses sporadic CLL was compared and the association between prognosis and CD38 expression studied. RESULTS: Familial and sporadic CLL demonstrated the same characteristic immunophenotype (positive for surface immunoglobulin, CD5, CD19, and CD23 with dim CD20, and CD22). CD2 and CD13 expression, however, were more frequent (30% of cases) in familial CLL (P = 0.0003 for CD2, P = 0.006 for CD13) than in sporadic  CLL (2-6%). There was no significant difference in survival in the two groups studied. Although the incidence of CD38 expression was similar in familial and sporadic CLL (47% and 44% respectively) the association with prognosis differed.  There was a trend to decreased survival in CD38 positive sporadic (P = 0.06) but  not familial CLL patients. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that detection of CD2 or CD13 expression in CLL suggests familial CLL and examination of family history for additional affected members is warranted. Furthermore, CD38 expression does not carry the negative prognosis observed in sporadic CLL."
1076	"Since the approval of rituximab in 1997, monoclonal antibodies have come to play  an important role in the therapy of hematological malignancies. Rituximab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, and alemtuzumab are US Food and Drug Administration-approved for treatment of B-cell lymphomas, acute myeloid leukemia, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, respectively. Multiple monoclonal antibodies directed against new and not-so-new cellular antigens are undergoing development and investigation all over the world. Most of these new compounds have undergone primatization or humanization, improving their specificity and decreasing their antigenicity when compared to earlier murine or chimeric products. This review will focus on three major aspects of monoclonal antibody therapy: 1) new therapeutic approaches with currently approved agents; 2) preclinical and clinical experience accumulated on new agents in the last few years; discussion will include available phase I, II, and III data on ofatumumab, epratuzumab, CMC-544, HeFi-1, SGN-30, MDX-060, HuM195 (lintuzumab), galiximab, lumiliximab, zanolimumab, and apolizumab; and 3) the role of naked and radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies in the hematopoietic stem cell transplantation setting."
1077	"Alemtuzumab (Campath, MabCampath) is a humanized therapeutic monoclonal antibody  (mAb) that recognizes the CD52 antigen expressed on normal and neoplastic lymphoid cells. This mAb is active in previously treated patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) refractory to alkylating agents and purine nucleoside analogs. Alemtuzumab is also investigated in previously untreated patients with this leukemia. The results of a prospective randomized Phase III study (CAM307 trial) comparing chlorambucil with alemtuzumab in the first-line treatment of progressive B-CLL were recently published. The overall response rate, complete remission rate, and progression-free survival were all superior for alemtuzumab. Moreover, elimination of minimal residual disease occurred in one third of complete responders to alemtuzumab and none to chlorambucil. Adverse events were similar in both arms with the exception of infusion-related reactions and cytomegalovirus infections. In 2001, alemtuzumab was approved in the USA and  Europe as a third-line therapy for patients with B-CLL who had been treated with  alkylating agents and failed fludarabine therapy. In September 2007, the US FDA,  on the basis of CAM307 results, approved alemtuzumab for the treatment of previously untreated patients with B-CLL. Moreover, the European Commission recently granted marketing authorization to alemtuzumab for the treatment of patients with B-CLL for whom fludarabine combination monotherapy is not appropriate."
1080	"BACKGROUND: Loss of response to transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta ) is thought to contribute to the progression of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Recent  findings of over-activation of the TGF-beta signal in FKBP12-knockout mouse prompted us to investigate whether FK506, the canonical ligand of FKBP, can activate the TGF-beta signal in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. DESIGN AND METHODS: We studied 62 chronic lymphocytic leukemia samples from patients with Rai/Binet stage 0 to 4 disease. The TGF-beta signal was investigated by western blotting and flow cytometry. The levels of Bcl2-family members and death-associated-protein kinase were also investigated by western blotting, whereas apoptosis was studied in flow cytometry. Down-modulation of FKBP12 was obtained by gene silencing with short interfering RNA. RESULTS: Twenty-two out of 62 chronic lymphocytic leukemia samples were sensitive to TGF-beta-induced apoptosis. All but two of the responsive samples underwent apoptosis also when cultured with FK506, but not with cyclosporine. Thirteen samples that were not sensitive to TGF-beta were sensitive to FK506. Overall, response to FK506 occurred in 33 samples. FK506 induced Smad2 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation. Accordingly, death-associated-protein kinase, a transcriptional target of Smad, was induced. At the same time, Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL levels decreased whereas the levels of Bim and Bmf increased. A loss of mitochondrial membrane potential preceded caspase activation and cell death. FK506 removed FKBP12 from its binding to the TGF-beta-receptor. FKBP12 release activated the receptor-kinase activity as suggested by the enhanced levels of phospho-Smad found in cells depleted of FKBP12. CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that most chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells escape  the homeostatic control of TGF-beta and that FK506 restores the TGF-beta signal in a proportion of non-responsive samples. We demonstrated that FK506 activates TGF-beta receptor I kinase activity in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, which transduces apoptosis by a mitochondrial-dependent pathway."
1083	"Cancer is associated with immune deficiency, but the biologic basis of this is poorly defined. Here we demonstrate that impaired actin polymerization results in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) exhibiting defective immunological synapse formation with APCs. Although this synapse dysfunction was in part a result of the CLL cells having poor APC function, defective actin polymerization was also identified in T cells from patients with CLL. We further demonstrate that, following contact with CLL cells, defects in immune synapse formation were induced in healthy allogeneic T cells. This required direct contact and was inhibited by blocking adhesion molecules on  CLL B cells. In T cells from patients with CLL and in T cells from healthy individuals that had been in contact with CLL cells, recruitment of key regulatory proteins to the immune synapse was inhibited. Treatment of autologous  T cells and CLL cells with the immunomodulating drug lenalidomide resulted in improved synapse formation. These results define what we believe to be a novel immune dysfunction in T cells from patients with CLL that has implications for both autologous and allogeneic immunotherapy approaches and identifies repair of  immune synapse defects as an essential step in improving cancer immunotherapy approaches."
1084	"Binding of the CD20 mAb rituximab (RTX) to B lymphocytes in normal human serum (NHS) activates complement (C) and promotes C3b deposition on or in close proximity to cell-bound RTX. Based on spinning disk confocal microscopy analyses, we report the first real-time visualization of C3b deposition and C-mediated killing of RTX-opsonized B cells. C activation by RTX-opsonized Daudi B cells induces rapid membrane blebbing and generation of long, thin structures protruding from cell surfaces, which we call streamers. Ofatumumab, a unique mAb  that targets a distinct binding site (the small loop epitope) of the CD20 Ag, induces more rapid killing and streaming on Daudi cells than RTX. In contrast to  RTX, ofatumumab promotes streamer formation and killing of ARH77 cells and primary B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Generation of streamers requires C activation; no streaming occurs in media, NHS-EDTA, or in sera depleted of C5 or C9. Streamers can be visualized in bright field by phase imaging, and fluorescence-staining patterns indicate they contain membrane lipids and polymerized actin. Streaming also occurs if cells are reacted in medium with  bee venom melittin, which penetrates cells and forms membrane pores in a manner similar to the membrane-attack complex of C. Structures similar to streamers are  demonstrable when Ab-opsonized sheep erythrocytes (non-nucleated cells) are reacted with NHS. Taken together, our findings indicate that the membrane-attack  complex is a key mediator of streaming. Streamer formation may, thus, represent a membrane structural change that can occur shortly before complement-induced cell  death."
1085	"Induction of active tumor-specific immunity in patients with chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (CLL) and other hematologic malignancies is compromised by the deficit of endogenous dendritic cells (DCs). In attempt to develop improved vaccination strategies for patients with CLL and other tumors with poorly identified rejection antigens, we tested the ability of ex vivo-generated DCs to cross-present the antigens expressed by CLL cells and to induce CLL-specific, functional CTL responses. Monocyte-derived DCs from CLL patients were induced to  mature using a "standard" cytokine cocktail (in IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, and PGE2) or using an alpha-type 1-polarized DC (alphaDC1) cocktail (in IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IFN-alpha, IFN-gamma, and polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid) and were loaded with gamma-irradiated, autologous CLL cells. alphaDC1 from CLL patients expressed substantially higher levels of multiple costimulatory molecules (CD83,  CD86, CD80, CD11c, and CD40) than standard DCs (sDCs) and immature DCs, and their expression of CCR7 showed intermediate level. alphaDC1 secreted substantially higher (10-60 times) levels of IL-12p70 than sDCs. Although alphaDC1 and sDCs showed similar uptake of CLL cells, alphaDC1 induced much higher numbers (range,  2.4-38 times) of functional CD8+ T cells against CLL cells. The current demonstration that autologous tumor-loaded alphaDC1 are potent inducers of CLL-specific T cells helps to develop improved immunotherapies of CLL."
1086	"Recent molecular investigations have demonstrated over-expression of a large number of tumor associated antigens (TAAs) in a variety of malignancies. Over-expression of ROR1 gene, a member of the receptor tyrosine kinase family, has recently been reported in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Wilms' tumor gene 1 (WT1) has long been known as a universal TAA expressed in a variety of solid and hematopoietic malignancies. In the present study, the expression profile of ROR1 and WT1 was investigated in different immunophenotypic subsets of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients. RT-PCR method was used to determine the ROR1 and WT1 genes expression in bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) samples from 51 newly diagnosed Iranian B-ALL patients. Isolated tumor cells from all patients were immunophenotyped by flow cytometry. Based on immunophenotypic results, our B-ALL patients were classified in four differentiation subsets; Pro-B (n = 7), Pre-B I (n = 29), Pre-B II (n = 13) and Immature/mature B-ALL (n = 2). Although ROR1 was over-expressed in more mature subsets (16.7%, 42.9%, 45.5% and 100%, respectively), WT1 was more represented in immature subsets of B-ALL patients (57.1%, 64.3%, 38.5% and 0%, respectively). Comparison of the frequency of ROR1 and WT1 positive samples at each immunophenotypic subtype revealed statistically significant difference only in Pre B I subtype (p = 0.02). Our results suggest that expression of ROR1 and WT1 in B-ALL is associated with the differentiation stage of the leukemic cells."
1087	"Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors induce chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  cell apoptosis and have potential as CLL therapeutics. We determined the half-maximal concentration (ED(50)) of 22 NOS inhibitors that induced CLL cell death in vitro. There was a direct correlation of the NOS1 (but not NOS2) dissociation constant (K(d)) and the hydrophobicity partitioning coefficient of each NOS inhibitor and its ED(50). NOS inhibitors that bound tightly to CLL cell  NOS1 and were hydrophobic potently induced CLL cell death. CLL cell RNA and protein analyses confirmed CLL cell NOS1 expression. Our studies permit the rational selection of NOS inhibitors for testing as CLL therapeutics."
1088	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common adult form of leukemia in the Western world, however, infrequent in the Eastern. It shows a remarkable heterogeneity, with some patients having an almost normal lifespan, others surviving only several years after diagnosis despite intensive therapy. To prospectively explore the prognostic significance of ATM and TP53 deletions in Chinese patients with CLL, interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and probes of LSI ATM and LSI p53 were used to detect ATM and TP53 deletions in 95 patients with CLL. ATM and TP53 deletions and their association with some other prognostic factors such as Binet stage, lymphocyte count in peripheral blood, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG), CD38 and ZAP-70 expressions were analyzed. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to construct survival curves, and results were compared using the log-rank test. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were used to assess associations between survival time and potential risk factors. Out of the 95 patients with CLL, ATM gene deletion was found in 9 (9.5%) patients, TP53 gene deletion in 16 (16.8%) cases. There were no significant differences between ATM or TP53 deletion and clinical parameters of sex, age, Binet stage, lymphocyte count, LDH, beta2-MG or ZAP-70 expression. However, the frequency of ATM and TP53 deletions were obviously higher in CD38-positive group than in CD38-negative group (P=0.001 and P=0.047, respectively). Among 41 patients received treatment with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, there were nine patients with TP53 or ATM  deletion, and no patient with these cytogenetic abnormalities achieved complete response (CR). Survival analysis showed that the patients with TP53 deletion had  significantly shorter survival times than the patients without TP53 deletion. There was no evidence of important association between outcome and ATM gene deletion. Serum levels of LDH and beta2-MG, CD38 expression, and TP53 deletion were the significant factors in determining overall survival (OS). TP53 deletion  and CD38 expression were the variables strongly associated with OS by multivariate Cox regression analysis. It was showed that ATM or TP53 deletion is  associated with high expression level of CD38 and TP53 deletion as a possible prognostic factor in Chinese patients with CLL."
1090	"OBJECTIVE: To study the effectiveness of peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow flow cytometric immunophenotyping (FCIP) in predicting the histologic B-cell lymphoma type. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied the FCIP results and tissue histopathology from  252 patients with B-cell lymphoma seen at Mayo Clinic's site in Rochester, MN, between January 1, 1997, and January 1, 2004, who had positive results on PB, bone marrow, or body fluid FCIP and a corresponding diagnostic tissue biopsy specimen. RESULTS: Most of the B-cell lymphomas studied were low grade, with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma being most common. Flow cytometric immunophenotyping histogram analysis was more informative than tabulated percentage antigen positivity; surface immunoglobulin and CD20 staining intensity, CD5 and CD23 positivity, CD10 positivity, and the coexpression of CD11c/CD22 and CD103 were the most pertinent markers. Using these FCIP parameters and strict immunophenotypic definitions for CLL, mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), and  hairy cell leukemia, we obtained greater than 95% specificity for each diagnosis. However, we encountered the following exceptions to standard paradigms of B-cell  lymphoma-associated FCIP: (1) CD5 expression by disorders distinct from CLL and MCL, (2) lack of uniform CD5 positivity in some CLL and MCL cases, (3) absence of CD10 in approximately 50% of follicular lymphomas, and (4) expression of CD103 by occasional marginal zone lymphomas. CONCLUSION: Stringent interpretation of PB and bone marrow FCIP results enables identification of certain B-cell lymphoma types. However, the observed exceptions to accepted immunophenotypic paradigms highlight the occasional phenotypic overlap among diseases and emphasize that a systematic approach to FCIP interpretations is key to providing clinically useful diagnostic information."
1091	"Alemtuzumab (Campath, Berlex) is a humanized IgG1 rat monoclonal antibody directed against the cell surface CD52 antigen, found on lymphocytes and monocytes. It is being developed for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), autoimmune disease and for the prevention of transplant rejection. This study focused on synthesis, quality control, in vitro evaluation  and biodistribution of (188)Re-labeled alemtuzumab for radioimmunotherapy of B-cell CLL. (188)Re-alemtuzumab was synthesized using a direct radiolabeling method. Reduction of the intramolecular disulfide bonds of the antibody was performed with tris-(carboxyethyl)-phosphine (Pierce), using a 1:60 molar excess. Reaction took place at room temperature for 20 min. A PD-10 desalting column was  used to purify the reduced antibody from excess phospine. Complexation and transchelation of (188)ReO(4)(-) was achieved using sodium gluconate as weak chelator and SnCl(2) as reducing agent. Quality control was done using instant thin-layer chromatography. Binding assays were performed on a CD52-positive cell  line (HuT-78). Female NMRI mice were injected intravenously with 20 microg radiolabeled alemtuzumab and killed at preset time intervals for biodistribution  studies. Tissues were dissected, weighed and counted for determination of radioactivity. Data were expressed as percentage injected activity per gram of tissue (% IA/g tissue) or as percentage injected activity (% IA). (188)Re-alemtuzumab was prepared achieving high radiochemical yields. Labeling efficiency of more than 95% can be obtained using optimal reaction conditions. (188)Re-alemtuzumab showed good in vitro stability, remaining intact at 24 h after radiolabeling. In mice, (188)Re-alemtuzumab showed high uptake in the blood (25.10+/-1.36% IA at 1 h p.i.), followed by a biexponential clearance (t(1/2alpha)=4.790 h and t(1/2beta)=55.45 h). Increased uptake was observed in kidneys and heart (9.29+/-0.46% IA/g in kidneys and 6.10+/-1.82% IA/g in heart at 1 p.i.). The highest absorbed radiation dose was received by the kidneys (0.159-3.26 mGy/MBq) and heart wall (0.0705-0.132 mGy/MBq). The predicted radiation dose for the total body was in the range of 0.0459-0.0529 mGy/MBq. The  effective dose for the human reference adult was estimated to be approximately 0.0486-0.195 mSv/MBq. (188)Re-alemtuzumab can be prepared with high radiochemical yield and purity and showed good in vitro behavior and favorable biodistribution. Therefore, (188)Re-alemtuzumab would be an ideal candidate for radioimmunotherapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
1092	"The membrane proteins CD38 and CD157 belong to an evolutionarily conserved family of enzymes that play crucial roles in human physiology. Expressed in distinct patterns in most tissues, CD38 (and CD157) cleaves NAD(+) and NADP(+), generating cyclic ADP ribose (cADPR), NAADP, and ADPR. These reaction products are essential for the regulation of intracellular Ca(2+), the most ancient and universal cell signaling system. The entire family of enzymes controls complex processes, including egg fertilization, cell activation and proliferation, muscle contraction, hormone secretion, and immune responses. Over the course of evolution, the molecules have developed the ability to interact laterally and frontally with other surface proteins and have acquired receptor-like features. As detailed in this review, the loss of CD38 function is associated with impaired immune responses, metabolic disturbances, and behavioral modifications in mice. CD38 is a powerful disease marker for human leukemias and myelomas, is directly involved in the pathogenesis and outcome of human immunodeficiency virus infection and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and controls insulin release and the  development of diabetes. Here, the data concerning diseases are examined in view  of potential clinical applications in diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy. The concluding remarks try to frame all of the currently available information within a unified working model that takes into account both the enzymatic and receptorial functions of the molecules."
1093	"Bendamustine is a water-soluble, bifunctional chemotherapeutic agent with characteristics of both an alkylator and a purine analog. Bendamustine combined with rituximab in vitro shows synergistic effects against various leukemia and lymphoma cell lines. Clinical trials supporting these results show that bendamustine plus rituximab is highly effective in relapsed and refractory patients with indolent lymphoma. The results have been found in rituximab-naive,  rituximab-pretreated, and rituximab-refractory patients with excellent response rates and toxicity profiles. Bendamustine is effective both with rituximab and as a monotherapy in rituximab-refractory patients. Interim results from a phase III, randomized trial comparing bendamustine and rituximab to a standard CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) and rituximab regimen suggest that combination bendamustine and rituximab may provide a viable  alternative for treatment of many indolent lymphomas."
1094	"Extramammary tumors rarely metastasize to the breast. The commonest tumors to metastasize in breast tissue are lymphoproliferative diseases, melanoma, lung cancer and gynecological malignancies. Primary breast lymphoma has been reported  in the literature with a maximum percentage of about 0.5% of all breast malignancies, while secondary localizations of lymphomas in the breast are less well studied in the literature than primary ones. The authors report a rare case  of a secondary localization of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia to the breast  in which the diagnosis was obtained by histopathology and immunohistochemistry and further confirmed by molecular data. This occurrence must be considered in the differential diagnosis of a breast lump so that the primary hematological disease can be adequately treated and the correct type of breast surgery performed."
1096	"To address the proposition that familial B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) may exhibit a more restricted phenotype than sporadic CLL with respect to immunoglobulin gene usage or ontogenic development, we compared immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain variable region (VH) gene usage and IgVH mutation status in 327  patients with CLL from 214 families with 724 patients with sporadic cases. The frequency of mutated CLL was higher in familial CLL (P < .001), and there was evidence of intrafamilial concordance in mutation status (P < .001). The repertoire and frequency of IgVH usage was, however, not significantly different  between familial and sporadic CLL. Furthermore, IgVH usage was not correlated between affected members of the same family. These observations provide evidence  that familial CLL is essentially indistinguishable from sporadic CLL, favoring a  genetic basis to disease development in general rather than a simple environmental etiology."
1097	"CD38 rules proliferation signals in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells, suggesting that the molecule is not merely a prognostic marker but also a key element in the pathogenetic network underlying the disease. CD38 has a genetic polymorphism, characterized by a C>G variation in the regulatory region of intron 1. The working hypothesis is that the presence of different alleles in CLL patients marks (or accounts for) some of the clinical heterogeneity. CD38 allele  distribution in 248 Italian patients overlapped with that of the controls (n = 232), suggesting that susceptibility to CLL is not influenced by CD38 genotype. Stratification of patients according to markers of unfavorable prognosis constantly resulted in a significantly higher frequency of the rare G allele. Furthermore, analysis of clinical parameters showed that G allele is independently associated with nodal/splenic involvement. The highest G allele frequency was observed in the 16 patients of the cohort that developed Richter syndrome (RS). Five-year cumulative incidence of transformation was significantly higher in G allele carriers than in CC homozygotes. Multivariate analysis on a total of 30 RS patients confirmed that the probability of transformation is strongly associated with G allele, likely representing an independent risk factor for RS development."
1100	"PURPOSE: del(17p), del(11q), and associated p53 dysfunction predict for short survival and chemoresistance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) is activated by DNA damage and mediates DNA double-strand break repair. We hypothesized that inhibiting DNA-PK would sensitize CLL cells to drug-induced DNA damage and that this approach could increase the therapeutic index of agents used to treat CLL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Fifty-four CLL cases were characterized for poor prognosis markers [del(17p), del(11q), CD38, and ZAP-70]. In selected cases, DNA-PK catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) expression and activity and p53 function were also measured. Ex vivo viability assays established sensitivity to fludarabine and chlorambucil and also tested the ability of a novel DNA-PK inhibitor (NU7441) to  sensitize CLL cells to these drugs. The effects of NU7441 on fludarabine-induced  DNA damage repair were also assessed (Comet assays and detection of gammaH2AX). RESULTS: DNA-PKcs levels correlated with DNA-PK activity and varied 50-fold between cases but were consistently higher in del(17p) (P = 0.01) and del(11q) cases. NU7441 sensitized CLL cells to chlorambucil and fludarabine, including cases with del(17p), del(11q), p53 dysfunction, or high levels of DNA-PKcs. NU7441 increased fludarabine-induced double-strand breaks and abrogated drug-induced autophosphorylation of DNA-PKcs at Ser2056. High DNA-PK levels predicted for reduced treatment-free interval. CONCLUSIONS: These data validate the concept of targeting DNA-PKcs in poor risk CLL, and demonstrate a mechanistic rationale for use of a DNA-PK inhibitor. The novel observation that DNA-PKcs is overexpressed in del(17p) and del(11q) cases indicates that DNA-PK may contribute to disease progression in CLL."
1101	"Ascites is not an uncommon manifestation of certain solid tumors like gastrointestinal malignancies, ovarian cancer and breast cancer. However, it is unusual to encounter ascites in patients with hematological malignancies especially chronic leukemia. The patient described here presented with massive ascites and blood lymphocytosis. Further studies confirmed the diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia with ascites. The ascitic fluid was exudative, consisting of mature-looking B-lymphocytes, which were morphologically and immunophenotypically similar to peripheral blood and bone marrow cells. The patient was treated with chemotherapy and achieved a good response and diminution of ascitic fluid accumulation."
1102	"BACKGROUND: Variants in numerous genes are thought to affect the success or failure of cancer chemotherapy. Interindividual variability can result from genes involved in drug metabolism and transport, drug targets (receptors, enzymes, etc), and proteins relevant to cell survival (e.g., cell cycle, DNA repair, and apoptosis). The purpose of the current study is to establish a flexible, cost-effective, high-throughput genotyping platform for candidate genes involved  in chemoresistance and -sensitivity, and treatment outcomes. METHODS: We have adopted SNPlex for genotyping 432 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 160 candidate genes implicated in response to anticancer  chemotherapy. RESULTS: The genotyping panels were applied to 39 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia undergoing flavopiridol chemotherapy, and 90 patients with colorectal cancer. 408 SNPs (94%) produced successful genotyping results. Additional genotyping methods were established for polymorphisms undetectable by  SNPlex, including multiplexed SNaPshot for CYP2D6 SNPs, and PCR amplification with fluorescently labeled primers for the UGT1A1 promoter (TA)nTAA repeat polymorphism. CONCLUSION: This genotyping panel is useful for supporting clinical anticancer drug trials to identify polymorphisms that contribute to interindividual variability in drug response. Availability of population genetic data across multiple studies has the potential to yield genetic biomarkers for optimizing anticancer therapy."
1103	"Personal use of hair dye has been inconsistently linked to risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), perhaps because of small samples or a lack of detailed information on personal hair-dye use in previous studies. This study included 4,461 NHL cases and 5,799 controls from the International Lymphoma Epidemiology Consortium 1988-2003. Increased risk of NHL (odds ratio (OR) = 1.3, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1, 1.4) associated with hair-dye use was observed among women who began using hair dye before 1980. Analyses by NHL subtype showed  increased risk for follicular lymphoma (FL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) but not for other NHL subtypes. The increased risks of FL (OR = 1.4, 95% CI: 1.1, 1.9) and CLL/SLL (OR = 1.5, 95% CI: 1.1, 2.0) were mainly observed among women who started using hair dyes before 1980. For women who began using hair dye in 1980 or afterward, increased FL risk  was limited to users of dark-colored dyes (OR = 1.5, 95% CI: 1.1, 2.0). These results indicate that personal hair-dye use may play a role in risks of FL and CLL/SLL in women who started use before 1980 and that increased risk of FL among  women who started use during or after 1980 cannot be excluded."
1107	"We report the genetic analysis of a large multi-generational family composed of 144 individuals in which 11 members have been diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia (CLL). The observation of a significant over-representation of monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) in unaffected family members strongly supports MBL being a surrogate marker of carrier status. A genome-wide linkage scan of the family using high-density 10K single nucleotide polymorphisms provided no significant evidence for a single gene model of disease susceptibility, inviting speculation that susceptibility to CLL has a more complex basis. The absence of a correlation in IGHV usage between affected family members does however argue strongly against exposure to a single super-antigen in disease development."
1108	"PURPOSE: The anti-tumoral activity of bisphosphonates (BPs) has been reported in  leukemia. In this study, we attempted to evaluate the apoptotic effects of the BPs pamidronate (PAM) and zoledronic acid (ZOL) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples, and to correlate it with clinical parameters and multidrug resistance (MDR) phenotype (P-glycoprotein and multidrug resistance-related protein expression and/or their functional activity). RESULTS: Both BPs were able to induce apoptosis significantly. No correlation was observed between BP-induced apoptosis and clinical parameters or MDR phenotype. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that concurrent or sequential administration of BPs  with conventional chemotherapeutic drugs may have significant therapeutic potential for CLL patients."
1109	"Protein phosphatase-2A (PP2A) is one of the major cellular serine-threonine phosphatases and is involved in the regulation of cell homeostasis through the negative regulation of signaling pathways initiated by protein kinases. As several cancers are characterized by the aberrant activity of oncogenic kinases,  it was not surprising that a phosphatase like PP2A has progressively been considered as a potential tumor suppressor. Indeed, multiple solid tumors (e.g. melanomas, colorectal carcinomas, lung and breast cancers) present with genetic and/or functional inactivation of different PP2A subunits and, therefore, loss of PP2A phosphatase activity towards certain substrates. Likewise, impaired PP2A phosphatase activity has been linked to B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Philadelphia-chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia and blast crisis chronic myelogenous leukemia. Remarkably, drugs such as forskolin, 1,9-dideoxy-forskolin and FTY720 which lead to PP2A activation effectively antagonize leukemogenesis in both in vitro and in vivo models of these cancers. Thus, PP2A is now in the spotlight as a highly promising drugable target for the  development of a new series of anticancer agents potentially capable of overcoming drug-resistance induced in patients by continuous exposure to kinase inhibitor monotherapy. Herein, we review current knowledge of PP2A biology and function with particular emphasis on its tumor suppressor activity and possible therapeutic implications in cancer."
1110	"Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a survival and angiogenesis factor that is a target for therapy in a variety of cancers. In many hematological malignancies, VEGF production is increased leading to cell survival responses. Herein, we demonstrate that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) induces mRNA expression of VEGF in the multiple myeloma cell line, U266, the Burkitt's lymphoma cell line, BJAB, and the chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)-like cell line, I-83. This increase in mRNA levels of VEGF corresponded with increased luciferase activity of the VEGF promoter in BJAB and I-83 cells and increased protein levels in I-83  cells. Secretion of VEGF was also increased in these cells following LPA treatment. LPA treatment also caused the activation of both VEGFR1 and VEGFR2. The increase in VEGF expression by LPA is mediated by the activation of c-Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) and transcription factor NFkappaB since blocking JNK or NFkappaB activation inhibited LPA induced VEGF expression. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that LPA protects cells from apoptosis and blocking activation of both VEGFR1 and VEGFR2 using a VEGF receptor kinase inhibitor prevented LPA survival responses. Knocking down expression of VEGFR1 and inhibiting activation  of NFkappaB and JNK also blocked LPA induced protection against apoptosis. Taken  together, this indicates that LPA contributes to VEGF production in B cell malignancies leading to cell survival."
1112	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most commonly diagnosed form of leukemia in the Western world, accounting for approximately 20%-30% of all cases  of leukemia. Despite recent medical and scientific advances, the literature on the subjective experience and nursing care of patients diagnosed with CLL remains scarce and sporadic. This article provides a brief overview on the pathophysiology, clinical characteristics, and treatment options of CLL with focus placed on implications for nursing care. Fatigue, the most common symptom reported by patients, and infection, the leading cause of disease-related deaths, also will be addressed. Emerging data examining quality of life and the incidence of anxiety and depression in this patient population will be reviewed, and strategies aimed at addressing the educational needs of patients and family members will be discussed."
1113	"Genmab A/S and licensee GlaxoSmithKline plc are developing ofatumumab, an anti-CD20 human mAb, for the potential intravenous treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and multiple  sclerosis (MS). Phase I and II clinical trials have been completed in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), rituximab-refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) and RA. At the time of publication ofatumumab was undergoing a phase II clinical trial in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and phase III clinical trials in patients with B-cell CLL (B-CLL) in which fludarabine and alemtuzumab treatments have failed and in patients with rituximab-refractory FL.  Ofatumumab was also undergoing phase II clinical trials as a combination therapy  for previously untreated patients with FL in combination with cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine, and prednisone and in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of B-CLL. In addition, two phase III clinical  trials to assess patients who have an inadequate response to methotrexate and TNFalpha therapy were ongoing for patients with RA, and a phase II clinical trial to investigate the effects of repeated doses of ofatumumab was recruiting patients with RA from a previous trial on ofatumumab. A phase I/II clinical trial of ofatumumab in relapsing-remitting MS was expected to commence in 2008."
1114	"Expression of the Syk family tyrosine kinase Zap70 is strongly correlated with poor clinical outcome in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the most common human leukemia characterized by B cell accumulation. The expression of Zap70 may reflect the specific cell of origin of the tumor or may contribute to pathology.  Thus, the normal role of Zap70 in B cell physiology is of great interest. While initial studies reported that Zap70 expression in the mouse was limited to T and  NK cells, more recent work has shown expression in early B cell progenitors and in splenic B cells, suggesting that the kinase may play a role in the development or activation of B cells. In this study, we show that Zap70 is expressed in all developing subsets of B cells as well as in recirculating B cells, marginal zone  B cells and peritoneal B1 cells. Analysis of Zap70-deficient mice shows no unique role for Zap70 in either the development of B cells or in their in vitro and in vivo activation. However, we show that Zap70 can rescue the defective positive selection of immature B cells into the recirculating pool in Syk-deficient mice,  demonstrating functional redundancy between these two kinases."
1115	"BACKGROUND: Whole-genome analysis by array-based comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) is an emerging technique for the detection of recurrent unbalanced chromosomal aberrations in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). These chromosomal changes can be highly predictive of clinical course and are evaluated at present using classical cytogenetics and interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization. However, the significant limitations of these assays have resulted in efforts to move array CGH from use as a discovery tool in the research laboratory into the clinical laboratory as an alternative method for the evaluation of genomic prognostic markers in patients with CLL. OBJECTIVE: The HemeScan(™) array was developed as a clinical tool to provide prognostic marker identification with simultaneous diagnostic monitoring of the entire genome in CLL and other hematological malignancies. METHODS: The authors review representative data from clinical testing of HemeScan for genomic aberration identification in CLL and present suggestions for the integration of array CGH genome scanning into the clinical laboratory. RESULTS/CONCLUSION: The HemeScan assay for CLL precludes the need for G-banded cytognetics by simultaneously revealing prognostic marker status and the level of genomic complexity in > 85% of cases."
1117	"Attempts to administer personalized standard cytotoxic chemotherapy based on individual patient characteristics have been disappointing. Alkylating agents are one of the oldest classes of anticancer medicine with a wide variety of molecular actions and thus the potential for broad utility. Bendamustine hydrochloride, a new addition to this class, was previously developed in the 1960s and has now been trialled in hematological malignancies and many solid tumor types as monotherapy or in combination with the known standard of care. It appears to occupy a particular role in resistant or refractory hematological disease and it  was approved by the US FDA for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in March 2008. Further trials will reveal whether it is likely to become incorporated into front-line regimens in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and other malignancies."
1118	"BACKGROUND: Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas are a heterogeneous group of neoplasms arising from the lymphopoietic system including a wide range of subtypes of either B-cell or T-cell lymphomas. The few established risk factors for the development of these neoplasms include viral infections and immunological abnormalities, but their etiology remains largely unknown. Evidence suggests that certain medical conditions may be linked, through immunosuppression, to the risk  of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Multiple myeloma is a neoplasm of plasma cells that accounts for approximately 15% of lymphopoietic cancers. Increases in the incidence of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and multiple myeloma in the past implicate environmental factors as potential causal agents. DESIGN AND METHODS: In the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC), 1,213 histologically confirmed incident cases of non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma and multiple myeloma (594 men; 619 women) were identified during a follow-up of 8.5 years. Cox proportional hazard models were used to explore the association between self-reported diabetes, diagnosed after 30 years of age, and  the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma overall and multiple myeloma and various lymphoma subtypes. RESULTS: We found no association between a personal history of diabetes and the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma overall in men (HR: 1.28, 95% CI: 0.89-1.84), in women (HR: 0.71, 95% CI: 0.41- 1.24), or in men and women combined (HR: 1.09, 95% CI: 0.80-1.47). Among the B-non-Hodgkin's lymphoma subtypes, we observed a statistically significant increased risk of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (HR: 2.0, 95% CI: 1.04-3.86) in men, but not in women (HR: 1.07, 95% CI: 0.33-3.43). CONCLUSIONS: This prospective study did not provide evidence for a role of self-reported diabetes in the etiology of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma overall or multiple myeloma. We found an increased risk of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia among men with diabetes, but not among women. We hypothesize that diabetes may not play a causal role in the etiology of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, though the underlying pathogenic mechanisms of both disorders may include shared genetic, host and/or environmental susceptibility factors."
1119	"PURPOSE: Routine cytogenetic analysis frequently fails to identify an abnormal clone in B-cell lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) due to poor response to mitogen stimulation. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) suggest that chromosomal abnormalities occur more frequently, most commonly trisomy 12, retinoblastoma gene deletion (Rb1 gene) and P53 gene deletion. PATIENTS AND METHODS: 30 patients with B-CLL were enrolled in the trial from two  centers in Cairo, Egypt during the period May 2000 to January 2002. Karyotyping and FISH assessment for possible chromosomal abnormalities (trisomy 12, Rb1 gene  and P53 gene) were done at initial diagnosis. Results of cytogenetic abnormalities were correlated with clinical picture and survival. RESULTS: The median age was 57.4 years (range 40-75). Karyotyping technique showed that no metaphase could be detected in 30%, metaphase with normal karyotyping was observed in 63% and cytogenetic abnormalities were detected in two cases (one trisomy 12 and one deletion in chromosome 13). FISH examination of interphase and metaphase nuclei revealed cytogenetic abnormalities in 15 cases (50%), trisomy 12 in 9 (30%), Rb1 gene deletion in 5 (17%) and P53 gene deletion  in 3. At diagnosis, patients with trisomy 12 were significantly associated with advanced stage and absolute lymphocyte count of >or=30,000/mm(3). Univariate analysis showed that absolute lymphocyte count >or=30,000/mm(3) (p=0.004) and trisomy 12 (p=0.024) were associated with poor progression free survival. CONCLUSION: Interphase and metaphase FISH studies improve the cytogenetic diagnosis of chromosomal abnormalities in B-CLL. Lymphocytosis and trisomy 12 may be a good indicator of poor prognosis."
1123	"BACKGROUND: Zeta-chain-associated protein (ZAP- 70) is a 70kD adaptor protein that acts quickly after T cell activation to propagate signal. The role of ZAP-70 in Tcell function is well established, and in the previous years, this molecule was considered to be T-cell specific. More recent data have documented a role of  ZAP-70 in B cells. Interest in ZAP-70 has grown since it has been shown, through  gene expression profiling, that it is expressed in a subset of cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL). PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of ZAP-70 in leukemic blasts of 50 newly diagnosed patients of B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and to assess the correlation between ZAP-70 expression and various prognostic factors and outcome. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study included 50 pediatric patients with newly diagnosed B-lineage ALL. They were 28 males (56% ) and 22 females (44% ) presented to the Pediatric Oncology Department, National Cancer Institute, Cairo  University, during the period from 2005 to 2007. The age range was 2 to 17 years  with a mean of 8.58+/-5.8 years and median 8 years. All patients were subjected at presentation to a full clinical history and physical examination. Patients diagnosed with ALL were enrolled on St. Jude Total XV protocol: standard risk and low risk according to results of primary investigation. Immunophenotyping was done using monoclonal antibodies which were analyzed on Coulter XL (Panel included CD1, CD2, CD3, CD4, CD5, CD7, CD8, CD10, CD19, CD22, Cytoplasmic m, anti k, anti l, CD13, CD33, anti classII MHC and TdT). Cases were considered ZAP-70 positive when exhibiting a ZAP/GAPDH (Glyceraldehyde- 3-phosphate dehydrogenase)  ratio >or= 0.13. RESULTS: The study revealed expression of ZAP-70 in 5/50 cases (10% ). There was  no statistically significant relation between ZAP-70 expression and the following: age, Total Leukocytic Count, hepatomegaly and splenomegaly. There was  a correlation however between ZAP-70- expression and sex. Four patients died of disease progression: one patient with positive ZAP-70 expression and 3 patients with negative ZAP-70 expression. Fifteen patients (30% ) relapsed after achieving complete remission (CR) and 3 patients (6% ) did not achieve CR. Four patients of those who relapsed had positive ZAP-70 expression. The 2.5 years DFS was 73.1% for negative ZAP-70 cases while it was 20% in positive ZAP-70 cases. There was a  statistically significant difference between 2.5-year DFS and ZAP-70 expression (p=0.048). The Overall Survival at 2.5-years for negative ZAP-70 cases was 93.3%  while it was 80% for positive ZAP-70 cases with p-value =0.27. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that in B-Lineage ALL, ZAP-70 expression correlates with a worse DFS and an increased relapse rate. Furthermore, these results raise  the need of prospective trials to evaluate the possibility of designing new compounds targeting this protein."
1124	"Leptomeningeal involvement in patients with CLL is relatively rare and the prognosis is usually considered to be poor. The authors reviewed all CLL patients treated in a tertiary referral center to assess the incidence and outcome of leptomeningeal involvement (LI) in CLL. They found an incidence of 1-2% of LI. Most of the patients with LI had a longterm survival, despite failure to clear the cerebrospinal fluid from tumor cells."
1125	"Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) is a candidate oncolytic virus that replicates and induces cell death in cancer cells while sparing normal cells. Although defects in the interferon antiviral response facilitate VSV oncolysis, other host factors, including translational and growth regulatory mechanisms, also appear to influence oncolytic virus activity. We previously demonstrated that VSV infection induces apoptosis in proliferating CD4(+) T lymphocytes from adult T-cell leukemia samples but not in resting T lymphocytes or primary chronic lymphocytic  leukemia cells that remain arrested in G(0). Activation of primary CD4(+) T lymphocytes with anti-CD3/CD28 is sufficient to induce VSV replication and cell death in a manner dependent on activation of the MEK1/2, c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase, or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway but not p38. VSV replication is  specifically impaired by the cell cycle inhibitor olomoucine or rapamycin, which  induces early G(1) arrest, but not by aphidicolin or Taxol, which blocks at the G(1)1S or G(2)1M phase, respectively; this result suggests a requirement for cell cycle entry for efficient VSV replication. The relationship between increased protein translation following G(0)/G(1) transition and VSV permissiveness is highlighted by the absence of mTOR and/or eIF4E phosphorylation whenever VSV replication is impaired. Furthermore, VSV protein production in activated T cells is diminished by small interfering RNA-mediated eIF4E knockdown. These results demonstrate that VSV replication in primary T lymphocytes relies on cell cycle transition from the G(0) phase to the G(1) phase, which is characterized by a sharp increase in ribogenesis and protein synthesis."
1128	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clinically heterogeneous disease with no  known single predisposing genetic factor shown in all cases. Recently, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) T393C in the GNAS1 gene has been reported to have a clinical impact on CLL progression and overall survival. In order to further investigate the T393C SNP in CLL, we have genotyped 279 CLL cases and correlated  the genotypes to clinical outcome and other known prognostic factors such as the  immunoglobulin heavy chain variable (IGHV) gene mutation status and CD38 expression. In the present study, no difference in overall survival or time to treatment was observed in the CLL patients with the different genotypes in contrast to the previous report. Furthermore, no correlation was observed with the T393C genotypes and IGHV mutational status, Binet stage or CD38 in this cohort. In summary, our data does not support the use of the T393C GNAS SNP as a  clinical prognostic factor in CLL."
1130	"BACKGROUND: ABT-263 is a potent (K(i) < 1 nM) small-molecule BH3 mimetic that inhibits the antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L) and Bcl-w. The structurally related Bcl-2 inhibitor ABT-737 exhibits single-agent preclinical activity against lymphoma, small-cell lung carcinoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia and displays synergistic cytotoxicity with chemotherapeutics and radiation. METHODS: ABT-263 was tested at concentrations ranging from 1.0 nM to 10.0 microM  using 23 cell lines from the PPTP in vitro panel and was tested in 44 xenograft models representing nine distinct histologies using daily gavage administration of ABT-263 (100 mg/kg) or vehicle for 21 days. RESULTS: ABT-263 was active against approximately one-half of the cell lines of the PPTP in vitro panel. The median IC(50) for all of the lines in the panel was  1.91 microM. ABT-263 induced significant prolongation of the EFS distribution in  9 of 35 (26%) of the solid tumor xenografts, and in 5 of 6 (83%) of the evaluable ALL xenografts. ABT-263 induced no objective responses in the solid tumor panels, but induced CRs in 3 of 6 evaluable xenografts in the ALL panel, including two that were maintained for an additional 3 weeks following treatment cessation. CONCLUSIONS: ABT-263 demonstrated in vitro activity against a range of cell lines, with the ALL cell lines showing the greatest sensitivity. ABT-263 demonstrated limited single agent in vivo activity against the PPTP's solid tumor panels but showed significant activity against xenografts in the ALL panel."
1133	"Limited knowledge exists about the impact of specific genetic abnormalities on the proliferation of neoplastic B cells from chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (B-CLPDs). Here we analyze the impact of cytogenetic abnormalities on the proliferation of neoplastic B cells in 432 B-CLPD patients, grouped according to diagnosis and site of sampling, versus their normal counterparts. Overall, proliferation of neoplastic B cells highly varied among the different B-CLPD subtypes, the greatest numbers of proliferating cells being identified in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and Burkitt lymphoma (BL). Compared with normal B cells, neoplastic B-CLPD cells showed significantly increased S + G(2)/M-phase values in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), BL, and some DLBCL cases. Conversely, decreased proliferation was observed in follicular lymphoma, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenström macroglobulinemia (LPL/WM), and some DLBCL patients; hairy cell leukemia, splenic marginal zone, and MALT-lymphoma patients showed S + G(2)/M phase values similar to normal mature B lymphocytes from LN. Interestingly, in B-CLL and MCL significantly higher percentages of S + G(2)/M cells were detected in BM versus PB and in LN versus BM and PB samples, respectively. In turn, presence of 14q32.3 gene rearrangements and DNA aneuploidy, was associated with a higher percentage of S + G(2)/M-phase cells among LPL/WM and B-CLL cases, respectively."
1134	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a lymphoproliferative disease with a highly variable outcome. The prognosis of patients with CLL may be predicted using a number of biomarkers, including the level of CD38 expression at the leukemic cell surface. This study investigates the hypothesis that CD38 expression by CLL cells reflects interactions with nonmalignant cells within pseudofollicles in secondary lymphoid tissue where tumor cell proliferation is thought to occur. CD38 expression is higher in tissues that contain pseudofollicles compared with those  that do not. In addition, we show that CD38 expression in CLL is dynamic, changes in response to contact with activated CD4(+) T cells, and identifies cells that are primed to proliferate. Finally, we demonstrate close contact between activated CD4(+) T cells and proliferating tumor in primary patient tissue. Proliferating tumor cells in lymph nodes express CD38, which is in turn associated with an increased number of CD31(+) vascular endothelial cells. Although the factors resulting in colocalization of tumor, T cells, and endothelium remain unclear, the existence of these cellular clusters may provide  an explanation for the association between CD38 expression and adverse outcome in CLL and suggests novel therapeutic targets."
1135	"We examined the chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells of 2457 patients evaluated by the CLL Research Consortium (CRC) and found that 63 (2.6%) expressed immunoglobulin (Ig) encoded by the Ig heavy-chain-variable-region gene (IGHV), IGHV3-21. We identified the amino acid sequence DANGMDV (motif-1) or DPSFYSSSWTLFDY (motif-2) in the Ig heavy-chain (IgH) third complementarity-determining region (HCDR3) of IgH, respectively, used by 25 or 3  cases. The IgH with HCDR3 motif-1 or motif-2, respectively, was paired with Ig light chains (IgL) encoded by IGLV3-21 or IGKV3-20, suggesting that these Ig had  been selected for binding to conventional antigen(s). Cases that had HCDR3 motif-1 had a median time from diagnosis to initial therapy comparable with that  of cases without a defined HCDR3 motif, as did cases that used mutated IGHV3-21 (n = 27) versus unmutated IGHV3-21 (n = 30). Of 7 examined cases that used Ig encoded by IGHV3-21/IGLV3-21, we found that 5 had a functionally rearranged IGKV  allele that apparently had incurred antigendriven somatic mutations and subsequent rearrangement with KDE. This study reveals that CLL cells expressing IGHV3-21/IGLV3-21 most likely were derived from B cells that had experienced somatic mutation and germinal-center maturation in an apparent antigen-driven immune response before undergoing Ig-receptor editing and after germinal-center leukemogenic selection."
1136	"Although chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has remained incurable with standard  treatments, newer therapeutic approaches, such as chemoimmunotherapy or stem cell transplantation, bear the potential for prolonged survival. We estimated trends in age-specific 5- and 10-year absolute and relative survival of CLL patients in  the United States between 1980-1984 and 2000-2004 from the 1973 to 2004 database  of the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program. Period analysis was used to disclose recent developments with minimum delay. Overall, 5- and 10-year  absolute survival from diagnosis increased from 54.2% to 60.2% (+6 percentage points; P < .0001) and from 27.8% to 34.8% (+7 percentage points; P < .0001), respectively. Despite a strong age gradient in prognosis, increases in 5-year absolute and relative survival over time were rather homogeneous across age groups. In contrast, increases in 10-year absolute and relative survival close to or well above 10% units were observed for all patients younger than 80 years of age at diagnosis compared with no increase at all for older patients. Long-term survival expectations of patients with CLL have substantially improved over the past 2 decades except for patients 80 years of age or older at the time of diagnosis. Future studies are needed to confirm and expand our findings."
1142	"Angiogenesis is increased in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). We wanted to quantify and characterize the circulating endothelial cells (CECs) in patients with B-CLL and correlate with plasma angiogenesis-related factors. Using a four-color flow cytometry, we prospectively analyzed the CEC in the whole blood of 20 healthy controls and 20 patients with B-CLL. We quantified (CD45-/CD31+/CD146+) and characterized the CECs according to whether they were apoptotic (annexin stain) or activated (CD106+). We also measured plasma levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1). Most patients (90%) had Rai stages 0-2 at the time  of diagnosis. As a group, B-CLL patients had higher number of CECs (median of 26.5 cells/ml) compared (P = 0.04) to healthy controls (18.5 cells/ml). However,  only four (20%) patients had elevated CEC counts, defined as >/=2 SD of the control mean (>/=53 cells/ml). The proportions of apoptotic (P = 0.83) and activated (P = 0.12) CECs were similar in both groups. B-CLL patients had higher  FGF-2 (P < 0.001), lower TSP-1 (P = 0.004), and similar VEGF (P = 0.27) plasma levels. The number of CECs was not associated with Rai stage, absolute lymphocyte count, or levels of angiogenesis-related factors. CECs are increased in only a small fraction of B-CLL patients in our cohort with low rates of apoptosis and activation. While no correlation was found between CECs and clinical features, more studies in a larger patient sample size and advanced disease are necessary."
1147	"Association between trisomy 8 and myeloid disorders/malignancies has been well documented. We report on two patients with a known history of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) with bone marrow involvement. In addition to the classic B-CLL cytogenetic abnormalities in one of the patients, both showed a trisomy 8 clone in their bone marrow specimens. Using a BioView Duet automated scanning system, which allowed us to combine histology with fluorescence in situ  hybridization, we showed that the trisomy 8 clone was restricted to the myeloid lineage. We believe that this finding signifies the development of myelodysplastic syndrome (de novo or therapy related), rather than progression of B-CLL with the occurrence of a new clone, and that in general, it has implications for the finding of trisomy 8 in CLL."
1149	"PURPOSE: Deforolimus (AP23573), a novel non-prodrug rapamycin analogue, inhibits  the mammalian target of rapamycin, a downstream effector of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt and nutrient-sensing pathways. A phase 2 trial  was conducted to determine the efficacy and safety of single-agent deforolimus in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Eligible patients were assigned to one of five disease-specific, parallel cohorts and given 12.5 mg deforolimus as a 30-minute infusion once daily for 5 days every 2 weeks. A Simon two-stage design was used for each cohort. Safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and antitumor response were assessed. RESULTS: Fifty-five patients received deforolimus as follows: cohort 1 23 acute myelogenous leukemia, two myelodysplastic syndrome and one chronic myelogenous leukemia in nonlymphoid blast phase; cohort 2, one acute lymphocytic leukemia; cohort 3, nine agnogenic myeloid metaplasia; cohort 4, eight chronic lymphocytic  leukemia; cohort 5, nine mantle cell lymphoma and two T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. Most patients were heavily pretreated. Of the 52 evaluable patients, partial responses were noted in five (10%), two of seven agnogenic myeloid metaplasia and three of nine mantle cell lymphoma. Hematologic improvement/stable disease was observed in 21 (40%). Common treatment-related adverse events, which were generally mild and reversible, were mouth sores, fatigue, nausea, and thrombocytopenia. Decreased levels of phosphorylated 4E-BP1 in 9 of 11 acute myelogenous leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome patients after therapy showed mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition by deforolimus. CONCLUSIONS: Deforolimus was well-tolerated in patients with heavily pretreated hematologic malignancies, and antitumor activity was observed. Further investigation of deforolimus alone and in combination with other therapeutic agents is warranted in patients with selected hematologic malignancies."
1150	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a well-defined clinical entity with heterogeneous molecular and cytogenetic features. Here, we analyze the impact of trisomy 12, del(13q), del(17p), and del(11q) as determined by interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of purified neoplastic B-CLL cells on their immunophenotype, DNA ploidy status and proliferative rate.Overall, 111 of 180 (62%) B-CLL cases studied displayed one (50%) or more (12%) genetic abnormalities, del(13q) (35%) being more frequently detected than trisomy 12 (23%) followed by del(11q) (9%) and del(17p) (8%). Trisomy 12 was associated with a higher frequency of DNA aneuploidy, stronger expression of CD19, CD20, CD22, CD24, CD27, CD79b, CD38, and sIg and lower reactivity for CD43  with respect to cytogenetically nonaltered cases. In turn, cases with del(13q) displayed greater reactivity for CD20, FMC7, CD27, CD22, CD5, and bcl2, while del(11q) was associated with brighter expression of CD38, FMC7, CD25, and sIg. Hierarchical clustering analysis of the immunophenotype of B-CLL cases with cytogenetic abnormalities allowed the identification of three different groups of patients with increasing frequencies of trisomy 12, del(11q), and del(13q). Remarkably, none of the cytogenetic abnormalities analyzed except coexistence of  13q- and 17p- had a clear impact on the proliferative index of B-CLL cells."
1152	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a highly variable clinical course. The role of an autologous tumor-specific immune control contributing to the variable length of survival in CLL is poorly understood. We investigated whether humoral immunity specific for the CLL-associated Ag oncofetal Ag/immature laminin receptor (OFA/iLR) has a prognostic value in CLL. Among sera of 67 untreated patients with CLL, 23 (34.3%) had detectable OFA/iLR Abs that were reactive for at least one specific OFA/iLR epitope. Patients with humoral responses compared with patients with nonreactive sera had a longer progression-free survival (p = 0.029). IgG subclass analyses showed a predominant IgG1 and IgG3 response. OFA/iLR Abs were capable of recognizing and selectively killing OFA/iLR-expressing CLL cells in complement-mediated and Ab-dependent cellular cytotoxicity assays. In the analysis of 11 CLL patients after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, 8 showed high values for OFA/iLR Abs that specifically recognized the extracellular domain of the protein, suggesting  a potential role of anti-OFA/iLR-directed immune responses to the graft-vs-leukemia effect in CLL. Our data suggest that spontaneous tumor-specific humoral immune responses against OFA/iLR exist in a significant proportion of CLL patients and that superior progression-free survival in those patients could reflect autologous immune control."
1153	"Alternative pre-mRNA splicing alters gene expression and protein function, and aberrant splicing patterns can be associated with neoplasia. The potential role of disordered RNA splicing in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is unexplored. We analysed the splicing repertoire of CDC25C- a gene localised to chromosome 5q31 and encoding a cyclin/cyclin-dependent-kinase regulatory phosphatase critical for cell cycle checkpoint control - in MDS, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and healthy tissues. Five novel splicing isoforms were detected, and the splicing patterns were generally distinct in neoplastic samples compared with healthy controls. One of the novel isoforms, which we have termed CDC25C-6, occurred in 58% of the samples in our cohort. The results of this study suggest the possibility of aberrant splicing contributing to the phenotype in MDS and other haematologic malignancies."
1156	"The clinical staging systems by Rai and Binet have remained the mainstay for clinical decision-making in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, there is substantial heterogeneity of the disease within the clinical stage groups. In recent years, molecular and cellular markers have helped to predict the prognosis of CLL patients. The mutation status of the variable region of the Ig heavy chain (VH status) and genomic aberrations subdivide CLL into distinct clinical subgroups. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) can identify genomic aberrations in approximately 80% of CLL cases. Although the FISH technique is used most widely, other approaches (array-CGH, SNP-arrays or CD40 or CpG-stimulated metaphase cytogenetics) show similar results, but assess all chromosomal regions. The most frequent aberrations are deletions in 13q, 11q or 17p, and trisomy 12. Apart from providing insights into the pathogenesis, genomic aberrations identify subgroups of patients with distinct clinical pictures (lymphadenopathy (11q-) or chemotherapy resistance (17p-)). Deletions at 11q and  particularly 17p are associated with rapid disease progression or inferior survival and patients with these genetic abnormalities are candidates for clinical trials investigating alternative treatments and stem cell transplantation. Similarly, abnormalities associated with good prognosis may benefit from de-escalation of current treatment approaches."
1158	"Once considered a simple homogeneous disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  is now recognized to be a heterogeneous lymphoid malignancy with patients classified into low, intermediate, and high-risk categories based on traditional  and novel prognostic factors. Purine nucleoside analogues have been the standard  first-line approach for over a decade. The recognition of synergistic activity between purine analogues, alkylating agents, and monoclonal antibodies has allowed the introduction of many new active combination therapies for treatment of this disease. The paucity of randomized studies determining the efficacy and tolerability of these new regimens, however, has made therapy selection for individual patients complex and cumbersome. At the present time, it remains unclear whether patients with aggressive disease based on molecular features should receive early or alternative treatment strategies. In this review, we summarize the data on combination chemotherapy and chemoimmunotherapy in CLL and  propose several key factors that should be taken into consideration when deciding on an initial treatment strategy. The review is intended to discuss and simplify  first-line therapy selection for patients with CLL in the era of new prognostic indicators and the better understanding of disease biology."
1159	"We previously reported that flavopiridol-induced apoptosis of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients' cells ex vivo is associated with downregulation of both the inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase (iNOS) that produces the antiapoptotic molecule NO, and the CDK inhibitor p27kip1 that is thought to block the cell cycle of CLL cells. Here, we show that iNOS downregulation is caspase-dependent and thus can be considered as one of the effector mechanisms of apoptosis, but not a primary triggering event induced by flavopiridol. Furthermore, we also find that this flavone favors the entry into the S and G2 phases of the cell cycle of a subpopulation of the leukemic cells, confirming that flavopiridol might be useful for improving the efficacy of cell cycle-dependent cytostatic agents in the therapy of CLL."
1160	"Recently, we described that vaccination with allogeneic dendritic cells (DCs) pulsed with tumor cell lysate generated specific CD8+ T cell response in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In the present study, the potential of autologous DCs pulsed ex vivo with tumor cell lysates to stimulate antitumor immunity in patients with B-CLL in early stages was evaluated. Twelve patients at clinical stage 0-2 as per Rai were vaccinated intradermally up to eight times with a mean number of 7.4 x 10(6) DCs pulsed with B-CLL cell lysate.  We observed a decrease of peripheral blood leukocytes and CD19+/CD5+ leukemic cells in five patients, three patients showed a stable disease and four patients  progressed despite DC vaccination. A significant increase of specific cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes against the leukemia-associated antigens RHAMM or fibromodulin was detected in four patients after DC vaccination. In patients with a clinical response, an increase of interleukin 12 (IL-12) serum levels and a decrease of the frequency of CD4+CD25(+)FOXP3+ T regulatory cells were observed. Taken together, the study demonstrated that vaccination with autologous DC in CLL patients is feasible and safe. Immunological and to some extend hematological responses could be noted, justifying further investigation on this immunotherapeutical approach."
1161	"Exploiting the antitumor effect of natural killer (NK) cells has regained interest in light of data from preclinical and clinical work on the potential of  alloreactive NK cells. Multiple myeloma (MM) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) represent the two most prevalent adult hematological malignancies in the western hemisphere. To evaluate the role of NK cells in the immune surveillance and their therapeutic potential for CLL and MM, tumor cell susceptibility to NK-mediated killing was investigated. Results show relative resistance of tumor cells from CLL as well as MM (73 and 70% of the patients, respectively) to NK-mediated killing. To gain insight into molecular mechanisms of this resistance, the expression of the tolerogenic HLA-G molecule in CLL and MM and its relevance to susceptibility to NK-mediated killing were investigated. HLA-G transcript was found in tumor cells from 89% (n=19) of CLL and 100% (n=9) of MM patients examined. HLA-G1 surface expression was observed in CLL and was very low or undetectable in MM. Notably, blocking of HLA-G1 with specific antibody on CLL  samples increased their susceptibility to NK-mediated killing, demonstrating that HLA-G participates in protecting CLL cells from NK-mediated killing and may thus  contribute to their immune escape in vivo."
1164	"BACKGROUND: Hematopoiesis outside the bone marrow is known to occur in patients with severe anemia, leukemia, polycythemia, or myelofibrosis, and in patients affected by chronic poisoning by marrow-toxic substances. CASE DESCRIPTION: A 66-year-old right-handed man complained of 4 days of terrible right-sided, sharp, and shooting headache for which he saw his primary care provider. Routine laboratory examination showed a WBC count of 30800/microL. Neuroimaging showed a large, right frontotemporal, extra-axial, heterogeneously enhancing, dural based mass with associated recent intramural hemorrhage with evidence of midline shift and uncal herniation. The mass was resected using a right-sided extended craniotomy with anterior fossa and middle fossa approach. A  hematoxylin-eosin-stained biopsy specimen showed whorls of tumor cells, diagnostic of a meningioma. Interspersed within the tumor bulk were nucleated RBCs, representing areas of extramedullary erythropoiesis within a meningioma. Flow cytometric evaluation confirmed the clinical suspicion of an underlying chronic lymphocytic leukemia. CONCLUSION: Occurrence of extramedullary hematopoiesis within a meningioma is extremely rare. Various theories may explain the occurrence of extramedullary hematopoiesis occurring within a meningioma in our patient, such as hematopoietic differentiation of multipotent mesenchymal tumor cells; direct extension of hematopoietic activity from the neighboring marrow cavity; displacement from bone marrow of stem cells that settle and develop in tissues where capillaries and blood vessels proliferate, such as a meningioma; or congenital heterotopia of totipotent connective tissue cells, which, under certain circumstances, may transform into hematopoietic tissue."
1165	"CD38 is an ectoenzyme involved in transmembrane signaling and cell adhesion and is used as a disease marker for leukemias and myeloma. CD38 is a dependable negative prognostic marker for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Recent evidence indicates that CD38 is a component of a complex network delivering growth and survival signals to CLL cells. In conjunction with chemokines and their receptors, CD38 also influences cell migratory responses. These considerations are the rationale for devising a CLL therapy that uses CD38 as the target. The use of reagents specifically blocking the molecule might provide a new approach for interfering with deleterious growth circuits, therefore increasing the susceptibility of leukemic cells to conventional chemotherapy."
1168	"BACKGROUND: The extent of enhanced bone marrow angiogenesis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and relationship to proangiogenic factors and prognostic indicators is largely unexplored. METHODS: To further investigate the role of angiogenesis in CLL by evaluating the topography and extent of angiogenesis in a group of CLL bone marrow biopsies, to  study the expression of pro and antiangiogenic vascular factors in CLL cells to more precisely document the cell types producing these factors, and to evaluate the role, if any, of localized hypoxia in upregulation of angiogenesis in CLL We  used immunohistochemistry (IHC) (n = 21 pts) with antibodies to CD3 and CD20, proangiogenic (VEGF, HIF-1a) and antiangiogenic (TSP-1) factors, and VEGF receptors -1 and -2 to examine pattern/extent of CLL marrow involvement, microvessel density (MVD), and angiogenic characteristics; flow cytometry (FC) was performed on 21 additional cases for VEGF and TSP-1. RESULTS: CLL patients had higher MVD (23.8 vs 14.6, p~0.0002) compared to controls (n = 10). MVD was highest at the periphery of focal infiltrates, was not enhanced in proliferation centers, and was increased irrespective of the presence or absence of cytogenetic/immunophenotypic markers of aggressivity. By IHC, CLL cells were VEGF(+), HIF-1a (+), TSP-1(-), VEGFR-1(+), and VEGFR-2(+). By FC, CLL  cells were 1.4-2.0-fold brighter for VEGF than T cells and were TSP-1(-). CONCLUSION: CLL demonstrates enhanced angiogenesis, with increased MVD, upregulated VEGF and downregulated TSP-1. Upregulation of HIF-1a in all CLL cases suggests localized tissue hypoxia as an important stimulant of microvessel proliferation. The presence of VEGF receptors on CLL cells implies an autocrine effect for VEGF. Differences in MVD did not correlate with traditional genetic/immunophenotypic markers of aggressiveness."
1169	"Inhibitors of the MDM2-p53 interaction are actively being developed as anti-cancer agents. Drug-induced interference with the MDM2 E3 ligase function or with MDM2 protein-protein interactions abrogates tonic suppression and destruction of the p53 protein; consequently, p53 steady state levels rise resulting in the induction of p53-dependent anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic  genes. Some cancerous cells harboring wild type p53 respond to MDM2 inhibitor-induced elevated p53 protein levels with apoptotic cell death while non-malignant cells, for poorly understood reasons, appear relatively resistant.  Deciphering the mechanisms of resistance or susceptibility to MDM2 inhibitor-induced cancer cell death is of significant importance for the clinical development and applications of MDM2 inhibitory compounds and serves to illuminate aspects of MDM2 and p53 biology. Using data from ex vivo MDM2 inhibitor treatment of a large cohort of molecularly highly characterized CLL cases, we were able to demonstrate the central role of p53 status as a determinant of resistance in this common leukemia. In the context of these experimental findings, we summarize pertinent knowledge of the biology of p53, MDM2, p53 target genes and MDM2 binding proteins. Finally, using data from a large SNP-array-based high-density genomic profiling study in CLL, we summarize the genomic copy number and allele status for important p53 effector genes as well as for MDM2 binding/target proteins, thus demonstrating the power of high resolution genomic analysis in support of targeted drug development."
1171	"Polymorphisms in genes coding xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes are considered as risk factors modifying susceptibility to cancer. We developed a biochip for the analysis of 18 mutations in 10 genes of metabolizing system: CYP1A1, CYP2D6, GSTT1, GSTM1, MTHFR, MTRR, NQO1, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and NAT2. Using allele-specific hybridization on the biochip 76 T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients, 83  B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients, and 177 healthy donors were tested. Polymorphic CYP1A1 alleles were more frequent in B-CLL patients relative  to normal controls, for example, a combination of polymorphic variants 4887C > A, 4889A > G, and 6235T > C (OR = 1.76, 95% CI = 1.0-3.1). The GSTM1 null genotype was more frequent in NHL patients relative to controls (OR = 1.82, 95% CI = 1.1-3.1). The combination of unfavorable polymorphic CYP1A1 variants and GSTM1 null genotype was found more frequently in B-CLL patients relative to controls (OR = 2.52, 95% CI = 1.3-4.9). In addition, male B-CLL patients demonstrated a significantly increased occurrence of heterozygous and homozygous allele *2 of CYP2C9 gene (OR = 2.38, 95% CI = 1.1-5.2) as well as a combination of alleles *2  and *3 of the gene (OR = 2.09, 95% CI = 1.1-3.9). Thus, our findings show the association between polymorphic alleles of CYP1A1, GSTM1, and CYP2C9 genes and the risk to develop NHL or B-CLL. The developed biochip can be considered as a convenient analytical tool for research studies and predictive analysis in oncohematology."
1172	"OBJECTIVES: To identify occupational factors associated with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). METHODS: A population-based case-control study was conducted in which incident cases of high-malignancy NHL (NHL(high)), low-malignancy NHL (NHL(low)), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) were ascertained during the period 1986-1998 among men and women aged 15-75 years residing in six German counties; controls were drawn from population registries. Occupational histories were collected and  agent-specific exposures were estimated via a job-exposure-matrix. Odds ratios were estimated by conditional logistic regression. RESULTS: A total of 858 cases were included in these analyses. Agricultural workers [odds ratio (OR) = 2.67, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.99, 7.21) and farmers (OR = 1.98, 95% CI: 0.98, 3.98] had elevated risk of NHL(high). Risk of NHL(low) was elevated among agricultural workers (OR = 2.46, 95% CI: 1.17, 5.16), and among blacksmiths, toolmakers, and machine tool operators (OR = 3.12, 95% CI: 1.31, 7.47). Workers in sales and construction had elevated risks of NHL(high) and NHL(low). Exposure to arsenic compounds, chlorophenols, diesel fuel, herbicides, nitrites/nitrates/nitrosamines, and organic dusts were associated with NHL(high) and NHL(low), while exhibiting little association with CLL. A positive monotonic trend in NHL(low) risk across tertiles of cumulative diesel fuel exposure was observed [P-value for test of linear trend (P) = 0.03]. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide insights into several potential occupational  risk factors for NHL and suggest some specific occupational agents for further investigation."
1173	"A 60-year-old male with chronic lymphatic leukemia (CLL) after 6 months of fludarabine therapy was admitted with status epilepticus and developed left hemiplegia. His magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple T2 hyperintense lesions in the right frontal and left parieto-occipital lesion, simulating progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML). Cerebrospinal fluid Polymerase  Chain Reaction (PCR) for JC virus was negative. We suggest the possible role of fludarabine in producing PML-like lesions in patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)."
1174	"The restricted immunoglobulin (Ig) repertoire found in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) implies a role for antigen(s) in the leukemogenesis. The nature of the antigens has, however, not been characterized, although examples of autoantigens have been demonstrated. We have analyzed a panel of 28 CLL cell lines and primary cultures, producing monoclonal Ig with different Ig heavy-chain variable region gene usage and mutational status, including several complementarity determining region 3 homology subset members. Using mass-spectrometry, immunoassays, or protein macroarrays, we have discovered novel antigens binding to CLL Igs. These antigens included cytoskeletal proteins vimentin, filamin B, and cofilin-1, but also phosphorylcholine-containing antigens (eg, Streptococcus pneumoniae polysaccharides and oxidized low-density lipoprotein [oxLDL]). Additional new antigens identified were cardiolipin and proline-rich acidic protein-1. Remarkably, these antigens represent molecular motifs exposed on apoptotic cells/blebs and bacteria, and several CLL Igs bound to apoptotic Jurkat cells. In conclusion, these intriguing data, showing a limited target structure recognition, indicate that CD5+ CLL B cells are derived  from a cell compartment that produces "natural antibodies," which may be instrumental in elimination and scavenging of apoptotic cells and pathogenic bacteria."
1175	"The immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide is currently being evaluated for its antineoplastic properties in treating hematologic malignancies. However, its potential role in augmenting immune reactions against opportunistic infections has not been explored. We report the rapid resolution of chronic Mycobacterium marinum infection in a patient following initiation of lenalidomide therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
1176	"We evaluated the activity and tolerability of alemtuzumab given as a continuous infusion for 7 d followed by subcutaneous administration for 11 wk as salvage therapy for 10 patients with fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The continuous infusion of alemtuzumab was well tolerated. The typical infusion reaction seen with intravenous alemtuzumab was abolished. Two patients achieved a partial response with an overall response rate of 20%. Alemtuzumab levels were measured in four patients and detectable levels were obtained in three. Clinical  activity needs to be confirmed in a larger patient population."
1177	"Alemtuzumab was the first monoclonal antibody to be humanized, a process which embeds rodent sequence fragments in a human IgG framework. The antibody target is CD52, an antigen expressed on normal lymphocytes as well as many T- and B-cell neoplasms. It therefore has a potential broad application across a spectrum of B- and T-cell malignancies as well as use as an immunosuppressant drug in, for example, bone marrow transplantation. The original licensing in the USA and Europe was for the treatment of fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, recent trials using alemtuzumab as a first-line agent for CLL have shown superior response rates compared with traditional alkylator therapy and this has led to US FDA approval for first-line treatment for CLL. It  seems to be particularly useful in patients with CLL who have deletion of the TP53 tumor suppressor gene, a subset of disease that responds poorly to other currently available chemotherapeutics."
1178	"Vulvar extramammary Paget disease (EMPD) is an intraepithelial carcinoma not frequently seen in conjunction with other primary tumors. Nevertheless, we are presenting a collision between malignant nodular melanoma and EMPD in the vulva of a 78-year-old gravida 6, para 6 woman with a medical history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The patient presented with vulvar irritation and a pigmented vulvar mass; biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of malignant melanoma. Peripheral to the main mass, the vulva grossly seemed erythematous, and the perineum seemed white and thickened. Multiple radial biopsies were taken to determine the extent of involvement by malignant melanoma, and these biopsies revealed that the "irritated" areas surrounding the melanoma were EMPD. Subsequently, a radical vulvectomy was performed, the margins of which were clear of both neoplasms. Five months later, bilateral groin adenopathy was biopsy proven to be metastatic melanoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and the patient died 8 months after the radical vulvectomy."
1179	"The tyrosine kinase ZAP-70 plays a critical role in signal transduction in T cells and NK cells but has limited expression in primary human B cells. ZAP-70 is, however, expressed in adult B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia where it correlates with a poor prognosis. We wished to determine if ZAP-70 is also expressed in pediatric B cell malignancy. A quantitative PCR assay for ZAP-70 expression was established and ZAP-70 expression in a range of human B cell lines was compared with expression in the Jurkat T cell line. ZAP-70 expression was then determined in bone marrow lymphoblasts obtained from 12 patients with pre-B  cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). ZAP-70 expression was not detected in mature B cell lines but was detected in pre-B cell lines at a level comparable to that seen in T cells. ZAP-70 expression was strongly expressed in nine of the 12  cases of primary pre-B cell lymphoblastic leukemia. The T cell-associated protein kinase ZAP-70 is highly expressed in pre-B lineage cells and most cases of pre-B  acute lymphoblastic leukemia. ZAP-70 expression may hold prognostic value for pre-B ALL and raises the prospect of a novel therapeutic target."
1180	"R-etodolac is a novel pro-apoptotic agent with potential antitumor activity against B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). This phase I clinical trial  was conducted to determine the tolerability, safety, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of R-etodolac, administered orally twice a day (BID), in patients with B-CLL. Secondary objectives included evaluating clinical response, pharmacodynamic activity (reduction of lymphocytes), and pharmacokinetic (PK) profile. Forty-three patients were enrolled in the study. The most frequently reported adverse events were diarrhea, rash, pruritus, and headache. Increases in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were also observed. Adverse events were generally  mild and self-limiting, although in an apparent dose-response relationship, grade 2 and 3 gastrointestinal toxicities and grade 3 skin toxicities were reported with the highest dose regimens (1,800 and 2,400 mg BID). Hematologic toxicity was rare. The MTD was determined to be 1,200 mg BID. PK results indicated that oral absorption of R-etodolac was rapid (time to maximum concentration ranged from 2 to 4 h), and the half-life ranged from 5 to 7 h. The increase in maximum concentration, however, was not proportional to the increase in dose. R-etodolac  significantly reduced absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) in B-CLL patients in a dose-dependent manner up to 1,800 mg BID and caused partial responses in 2 patients. Further study of R-etodolac as a possible new maintenance therapy or as a part of combination therapy of B-CLL appears warranted."
1181	"Fludarabine (FLU)-based combination therapies are commonly used to treat low-grade lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. In vitro and  clinical studies have indicated advantages when FLU and mitoxantrone (MTO) are applied in combination. To further enhance this effect, these two agents were coencapsulated in liposomes. FLU was passively encapsulated during liposome formation, and MTO was loaded with a transmembrane pH gradient. Entrapment efficiency, particle size, stability, and drug release kinetics were characterized. In vitro cytotoxicity study was carried out in two representative  B-cell lines: Wac3CD5 and Raji. Synergism as measured by combination index (CI) was observed in cells treated with liposomes coencapsulating FLU and MTO. Annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) analysis further confirmed that coencapsulated FLU and MTO improved the percentage of apoptosis among primary CLL cells. These data suggest that adopting liposomes containing coencapsulated drug combinations constitutes a potential strategy to promote drug synergism and may have utility in the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma."
1183	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells rapidly undergo apoptosis when cultured  in vitro, which contrasts with their prolonged survival in vivo. Multiple cytokines and cytokine receptors are believed to work together to regulate the survival of CLL cells. The aim of the current study was to measure the endogenous expression and secretion of cytokines and cytokine receptors in CLL cells when exogenous cytokines are minimized. We demonstrated that the intracellular and secreted levels of 174 cytokines and cytokine receptors of purified CLL B-cells were not significantly different from those of normal B-cells except for the secreted levels of IL-6 and eotaxin. IL-6 was 3.0 times lower (p = 0.038) whereas eotaxin was 2.2 times higher (p = 0.027) in CLL conditioned medium than in normal B-cell conditioned medium. Our results suggest that, except for IL-6 and eotaxin, CLL B-cells and their normal counterparts produce and secrete similar amounts of  cytokines and cytokine receptors in vitro."
1185	"We measured the angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) expression in early chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients, pointing our attention on the association with immunoglobulin (IgV(H)) mutational status, CD38 expression and clinical outcome.  Our results indicate that Ang-2 expression is heterogeneous among Binet stage A CLL patients. CLL patients can be divided into two subgroups (Ang-2 positive and  Ang-2 negative CLL) with 30% of them displaying Ang-2 RNA levels above the cut off. A shorter progression-free survival was observed in Ang-2 positive CLL subset (p=0.032). Abnormal Ang-2 expression was also associated with unmutated IgV(H) genes (p<0.0001) and increased bone marrow angiogenesis (p=0.028), suggesting a role of Ang-2 in disease-progression of early CLL patients."
1187	"Clinical data and immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgVH) gene configuration were analyzed in 47 CLL patients, exposed to ionizing radiation (IR) due to Chernobyl NPP accident, and 141 non-exposed patients. Clean-up workers of the second quarter of 1986 (n=19) were picked out as separate group with the highest  number of unmutated cases (94.4%), increased usage of IgVH1-69 (33.3%) and IgVH3-21 (16.7%) genes, high frequency of secondary solid tumors (6 cases) and Richter transformation (4 cases). These preliminary data suggest that CLL in the  most suffered contingent due to Chernobyl NPP accident might have some specific features."
1188	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a frequent hematological malignancy, with meningeal or peripheral nerve infiltrations being the most commonly encountered neurological complications. In this report, we describe a CLL patient with Miller-Fisher syndrome (MFS) who responded to immune modulation with plasmapheresis. A 47-year-old man diagnosed as B-cell CLL admitted with neutropenic fever. He complained of diplopia and numbness of both arms. Neurological examination revealed a bilateral external ophthalmoplegia, dysphagia, dysarthria, mild shoulder girdle muscle weakness and gait ataxia, accompanied by absent tendon reflexes. Nerve conduction studies were indicative of a predominantly axonal sensori-motor peripheral neuropathy. This association of CLL with MFS had not been previously reported in the literature."
1190	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNAs regulating gene expression that play  roles in human diseases, including cancer. Each miRNA is predicted to regulate hundreds of transcripts, but only few have experimental validation. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common adult human leukemia, miR-15a and miR-16-1 are lost or down-regulated in the majority of cases. After our previous  work indicating a tumor suppressor function of miR-15a/16-1 by targeting the BCL2 oncogene, here, we produced a high-throughput profiling of genes modulated by miR-15a/16-1 in a leukemic cell line model (MEG-01) and in primary CLL samples. By combining experimental and bioinformatics data, we identified a miR-15a/16-1-gene signature in leukemic cells. Among the components of the miR-15a/16-1 signature, we observed a statistically significant enrichment in AU-rich elements (AREs). By examining the Gene Ontology (GO) database, a significant enrichment in cancer genes (such as MCL1, BCL2, ETS1, or JUN) that directly or indirectly affect apoptosis and cell cycle was found."
1191	"The introduction of the monoclonal antibodies rituximab (anti-CD20) and alemtuzumab (anti-CD52) has revolutionized the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Both antibodies were first studied as single agents in relapsed CLL, but rituximab is increasingly used in combination chemoimmunotherapy regimens in previously untreated patients. Phase II studies demonstrated that the addition of rituximab to fludarabine-based chemotherapy improves complete response (CR) rates and prolongs progression-free survival (PFS), but a long-term survival benefit has not been shown. Alemtuzumab is less commonly used, due to the greater likelihood of infusion toxicity, as well as hematologic and immune toxicities. Subcutaneous (SC) administration significantly reduces infusion toxicity, but hematologic and infectious complications, most notably cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation, still occur with SC dosing. Alemtuzumab's unique clinical properties include its clinical activity in relapsed CLL patients with del(17p13) and its ability to eradicate minimal residual disease (MRD) in bone marrow. Its use as consolidation therapy to eradicate MRD after nucleoside analog therapy is under active study. Several investigational monoclonal antibodies are in preclinical or clinical studies, most notably lumiliximab (anti-CD23) and ofatumumab (HuMax CD20), and are briefly discussed in this review."
1192	"In the last decade rituximab, alemtuzumab, and gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) have been used to treat patients with hematologic malignancies. Their efficacy and safety are now well established. Since their preclinical development, many studies have been performed to optimize dose and schedule. Rituximab is usually given at 375 mg/m(2), a dose that shows activity and little toxicity. It is normally administered as single agent or in combination with chemotherapy to induce remission in B-cell neoplasias. Moreover, given its low toxicity and long  half-life, rituximab also can be used as maintenance therapy. Alemtuzumab is administered with a schedule of 30 mg, three times per week, after an initial dose escalation in the first week, showing activity against chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and some T-cell neoplasias. GO is administered at a dose of 9 mg/m(2) at 2-week intervals for two doses; it is the first monoclonal antibody approved for the treatment of relapsed or refractory CD33(+) acute myeloid leukemia (AML)."
1194	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized chimeric monoclonal antibody targeting CD52. Although  this agent already has an important role in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (CLL), many of its uses are still being defined. Early trials showed alemtuzumab's value in refractory disease and helped to define its excellent activity in the bone marrow, spleen and 17p deleted patients. The CAM307 trial has demonstrated alemtuzumab's efficacy as monotherapy in the front-line setting, and ultimately led to its FDA approval as frontline therapy. Especially promising is the trend toward improved response in patients with high risk cytogenic abnormalities (17p del, 11q del, trisomy 12). The various consolidation trials have also provided promising results of achieving eradication of minimal residual disease (MRD). Although the ultimate benefit of achieving MRD negativity remains  under investigation, alemtuzumab's potent activity on the bone marrow will likely make it an important part of combination therapy."
1195	"Varicella zoster virus (VZV) infection is one of the frequent opportunistic infections after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, with a high incidence of 30-50%. However, no data have been reported on VZV infection after allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT).PATIENTS AND METHODS: We report a retrospective analysis of VZV infection in 192 allogeneic PBSCT recipients. Twenty-seven patients (14%) received long-term prophylaxis of low-dose acyclovir (200 mg twice daily orally > or =3 months) for recurrent oral  (n=21) or genital herpes simplex virus infection (n=5) or for a previous history  of recurrent VZV infection (n=1). RESULTS: Forty-two patients (22%) developed VZV infections: localized (n=37) and  disseminated infection (n=5). The incidence of VZV infection at 1 and 3 years was 19.3+/-3.3% and 36.8+/-5.2%, respectively. Complications included post-herpetic neuralgia (n=18, 43%), secondary bacterial infections (n=3), and intracranial hemorrhage (n=1) with 2 deaths. A higher risk factor for VZV infection was pre-transplant diagnosis of a lymphoproliferative disorder (LPD): chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's disease, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (P=0.021, 52.5% in LPD vs. 32.6% in non-LPD group). The use of low-dose acyclovir prophylaxis (P=0.043, 14.7% in acyclovir vs. 41.6% in nonacyclovir group) was found to be protective. Although no VZV infection episodes were noted during the  period of acyclovir prophylaxis, 3 episodes of VZV infection were noted after acyclovir cessation. CONCLUSION: The incidence of VZV infection after PBSCT was high at 36.8%, with patients transplanted for LPDs at higher risk. The long-term use of low-dose acyclovir may be protective for VZV infection, although it does not completely prevent rebound of late VZV infection."
1196	"Lenalidomide is a novel anticancer agent that has made a major impact in the treatment of patients with B-cell malignancies. A more potent analog of thalidomide, lenalidomide was developed to enhance immunomodulatory properties with improved safety profile. Its antitumor activity seems mediated through modulation of both the cytokine and cellular tumor cell microenvironment. Preclinical as well as clinical observations demonstrate that lenalidomide downregulates production of various critical prosurvival cytokines in the tumor microenvironment while concurrently promoting activation of T- and natural killer (NK) cell-mediated antitumor response. Early clinical investigations noted its efficacy in relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma patients. Subsequently, larger randomized studies confirmed the clinical benefit of lenalidomide when added to dexamethasone compared with dexamethasone alone in previously treated myeloma patients resulting in its recent approval by the US Food and Drug Administration. Consequently, the role of lenalidomide in other B-cell malignancies has been investigated, with impressive results in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. This review summarizes the data  from various clinical investigations and highlights the impact of lenalidomide in the management of patients with B-cell malignancies."
1197	"Acute renal insufficiency associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has  a variety of causes. An extremely rare cause of renal dysfunction is dense leukemic infiltrate in the renal interstitium. This report describes a patient with CLL who developed acute renal failure secondary to leukemic infiltration and who had a partial response to chemotherapy. This diagnosis should always be considered when a patient with CLL, regardless of the clinical stage, presents with renal insufficiency because it appears to respond reasonably well to a variety of therapies. The finding of enlarged kidneys on renal ultrasound is suggestive of infiltrative disease, but is not always present. Proteinuria is generally mild. The literature is reviewed."
1198	"Effective administration of flavopiridol in advanced-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is often associated with early biochemical evidence of tumor cell  lysis. Previous work using other cell types showed that flavopiridol impacts mitochondria, and in CLL cells flavopiridol down-regulates the mitochondrial protein Mcl-1. We therefore investigated mitochondrial structure and function in  flavopiridol-treated CLL patient cells and in the lymphoblastic cell line 697 using concentrations and times at which tumor lysis is observed in treated patients. Mitochondrial membrane depolarization was detected in flavopiridol-treated CLL cells by 6 hours, well before the onset of cell death. Flavopiridol-induced mitochondrial depolarization was not blocked by caspase inhibitors or by the calcium chelator EGTA, but was reduced by Bcl-2 overexpression. Intracellular calcium mobilization was noted at early time points using fluorescence microscopy. Furthermore, electron paramagnetic resonance oximetry showed a gradual but significant reduction in cellular oxygen consumption rate by 6 hours, corresponding with ultrastructural mitochondrial damage detected by electron microscopy. These observations suggest that in CLL and 697 cells, flavopiridol mediates its cytotoxic effects via induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition and changes in intracellular calcium."
1199	"The Aiolos transcription factor, member of the Ikaros family of zinc finger proteins, plays an important role in the control of mature B lymphocyte differentiation and proliferation, and its function appears to be modulated through alternative splicing. To assess Aiolos isoform role in humans' pathologies, we studied Aiolos variant distribution and expression in mature B lymphoproliferative disorders (chronic lymphocytic leukemia [CLL] and other B-cell lymphomas). We demonstrated that more than 80% of expressed Aiolos in normal as well as in malignant B cells is of the hAio1 type, and we showed for the first time a homogeneous overexpression of the total amounts of Aiolos transcripts in the B cells of CLL patients, independently of ZAP-70 and IgV(H) mutational status prognosis factors. This up-regulation of Aiolos, confirmed at protein level, seems independent of Aiolos promoter H3K9 acetylation and H3K4 trimethylation."
1200	"We analyzed the immunoglobulin (Ig) variable heavy (IGHV) and variable light chain genes used by leukemia cells of 258 unrelated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) found to express unmutated Ig heavy chains (IgH) encoded by a 51p1 allele of IGHV1-69 among 1846 CLL patients examined. We found each had at least 98% homology to an identified germline IGKV or IGLV gene. Within the 258 IgH, we identified heavy chain CDR3 (HCDR3) motifs encoded by certain unmutated IGHD and IGHJ genes with restricted reading frames. Frequent and restricted use of particular IGKV and IGLV genes revealed nonstochastic pairing of disparate Ig light chains (IgL) with IgH that had restricted HCDR3 motifs designated CLL69A, -B, -C, and -D. Eighty-six percent (19/22) of CLL cases that expressed motif CLL69B encoded by IGHD2-2/IGHJ6 had distinctive IgL encoded  by IGKV1-39. Similarly, 83% (5/6) of samples with motif CLL69D encoded by IGHD2-2/IGHJ6 expressed IGKV3-11, 100% (25/25) with motif CLL69A encoded by IGHD3-16/IGHJ3 used IGKV3-20, and 77% (10/13) with motif CLL69C encoded by IGHD3-3/IGHJ6 expressed IGLV3-9. This study reveals nonstochastic pairing of IgH  with particular IgL that is predicated upon Ig HCDR3 structure, providing compelling evidence for selection of antibodies expressed in CLL by conventional  antigens."
1201	"BACKGROUND: To the authors' knowledge, genetic abnormalities in early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have not been examined fully. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genomic array (SNP-chip) is a new tool that can detect copy number changes and uniparental disomy (UPD) over the entire genome with very high resolution. METHODS: The authors performed SNP-chip analysis on 56 samples from patients with early-stage, untreated CLL. To validate the SNP-chip data, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis was performed at selected sites. Expression levels  of ZAP-70 and the mutational status of immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene also were  examined. RESULTS: SNP-chip analysis easily detected nearly all changes that were identified by FISH, including trisomy 12, deletion of TP53 (17p13), deletion of ATM (11q22), and deletion of 13q14. Only 10 of 56 CLL samples (18%) had no genomic abnormalities. Excluding the 4 common abnormalities mentioned above, 25 CLL samples (45%) had a total of 45 copy number changes detected by SNP-chip analysis. Four samples had 6q deletion at 6q21 that involved the AIM1 gene. UPD was detected in 4 samples; 2 samples involved whole chromosome 13 resulting in homozygous deletion of micro-RNA-15a (miR-15a)/miR-16-1. CLL samples with deletion of 13q14 and trisomy 12 were mutually exclusive. CONCLUSIONS: Genetic abnormalities, including whole chromosome 13 UPD, are very common events in early-stage CLL. SNP-chip analysis can detect small genetic abnormalities in CLL and may be able to support or even supplant FISH and cytogenetics."
1202	"BACKGROUND: The ubiquitin-proteasome pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many hematologic malignancies. METHODS: The authors measured proteasome peptidase activity levels in plasma samples from 225 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and correlated  the results with clinical behavior. By using fluorogenic kinetic assays, the enzymatic activity levels of 3 proteasomes were measured: chymotrypsin-like (Ch-L), trypsin-like (Tr-L), and caspase-like (Cas-L). RESULTS: All activity levels were significantly higher in patients who had CLL compared with the levels in a control group of healthy volunteers (P<.001). Rai stage was correlated with Ch-L activity (P<.001) but not with Cas-L or Tr-L activity. Levels of beta2 microglobulin (B2M) were correlated with Ch-L activity  (correlation coefficient [R]=0.4; P<.001) and with Cas-L activity (R=0.25; P=.001) but not with Tr-L activity. Cas-L activity as a continuous variable was a strong predictor of survival. Ch-L and Cas-L activity levels as categorical variables both were strong predictors of survival; Cas-L activity was independent of B2M level but not of immunoglobulin variable heavy chain gene (IgVH) mutation  status. However, the combination of elevated B2M levels (>3.2 mg/L) and Cas-L activity (>1.32 pmoL/second/mL plasma) was associated with significantly shorter  survival independent of IgVH mutation status. CONCLUSIONS: The current results indicated that measuring plasma proteasome activity has prognostic value in CLL that, when combined with B2M, can be independent of IgVH mutation status."
1203	"BACKGROUND: The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of the combination of fludarabine and rituximab, followed by alemtuzumab, as first-line treatment for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). METHODS: In a nonrandomized phase 2 trial, 41 patients who had previously untreated CLL or SLL and required treatment received 4 cycles of the fludarabine  and rituximab combination followed 5 weeks later by 4 weeks (12 doses) of intravenous alemtuzumab therapy. The response to treatment was evaluated after completion of treatment with fludarabine and rituximab, and again after the completion of alemtuzumab consolidation. RESULTS: Initial treatment with the combination of fludarabine and rituximab was  well tolerated, and produced a 71% overall response rate (13% complete response). Thirty-four patients began treatment with intravenous alemtuzumab, but this drug  was relatively poorly tolerated when given at a short interval after fludarabine  and rituximab, and only 20 patients (49% of total) were able to complete the prescribed course. Five patients had an improvement in their response with alemtuzumab; the final complete response rate was 21%. The median progression-free survival for the entire group was 42 months. Toxicity with alemtuzumab included infusion-related toxicity, myelosuppression, and opportunistic infections. CONCLUSIONS: The intravenous schedule of alemtuzumab employed in the trial was relatively poorly tolerated in this community-based trial. The relatively low complete response rates after treatment with the combination of fludarabine and rituximab and after the completion of treatment suggest that these abbreviated courses may compromise efficacy. The generalized use of alemtuzumab as consolidation therapy cannot yet be recommended for community practice. However,  optimization of the route of administration, duration of treatment, and interval  after completion of induction therapy may improve efficacy, and further investigation is ongoing."
1204	"We conducted a meta-analysis to summarize the available evidence from cohort studies on the association between excess body weight and incidence of leukemia.  Studies were identified by searching the MEDLINE and EMBASE databases (1966-July  2007) and by examining the references of retrieved articles. A random-effects model was used to combine the results from individual studies. We identified 9 cohort studies with data on body mass index (BMI) or obesity in relation to incidence of leukemia. Compared with nonoverweight individuals (BMI < 25 kg/m(2)), the summary relative risks (RRs) of leukemia were 1.14 [95% confidence  interval (CI), 1.03-1.25] for overweight individuals (BMI 25-30 kg/m(2)) and 1.39 (95% CI, 1.25-1.54) for obese (BMI >or= 30 kg/m(2)) individuals. On a continuous  scale, a 5 kg/m(2) increase in BMI was associated with a 13% increased risk of leukemia (RR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.07-1.19). In a meta-analysis of 4 studies reporting results on subtypes of leukemia, the summary RRs associated with obesity were 1.25 (95% CI, 1.11-1.41) for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 1.65 (95% CI, 1.16-2.35) for acute lymphocytic leukemia, 1.52 (95% CI, 1.19-1.95) for acute myeloid leukemia and 1.26 (95% CI, 1.09-1.46) for chronic myeloid leukemia. This  meta-analysis indicates that excess body weight is associated with an increased risk of developing leukemia."
1206	"BACKGROUND: Prolymphocytes are nucleolated cells that are the defining features of the 2 chronic lymphoproliferative disorders, prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with increased prolymphocytes. Prolymphocytes  appear relatively unfamiliar in cytopathology practice, and, particularly when present in body fluids, may resemble blasts or adult T-cell leukemia/ lymphoma (ATLL) cells. CASE: A 32-year-old man, referred to us with a diagnosis of acute leukemia, presented with shortness of breath for 2 months and loss of appetite for 3 months. He had enlarged liver and spleen, 6 and 8 cm, respectively, below the costal margin and pleural effusion. The raised total leukocyte count chiefly comprised prolymphocytes that, especially in the pleural fluid, had prominent nucleoli and significant pleomorphism, raising the possibility of blasts or ATLL. CONCLUSION: Prolymphocytes in body fluids can be misinterpreted as blasts or even ATLL cells. Better awareness among cytopathologists about prolymphocytes and the  disease states in which they occur, as well as insistence, in a clinical setting  of leukemia, on interpreting the pleural fluid in relation to the clinical and laboratory findings, especially those of the peripheral blood and bone marrow, can prevent misdiagnosis. Equally importantly, immunophenotyping must be done in  such situations."
1207	"A 63-year-old man with a history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and a prosthetic aortic valve was hospitalized because of a mastoiditis, complicated by meningitis and epileptic seizures. Two weeks later he developed a lesion in the right temporal lobe. A brain abscess was suspected. However after treatment his clinical condition failed to improve. 99mTc-Tetrofosmin brain SPECT was performed and revealed substantially increased tracer uptake. Due to the patient's clinical deterioration, surgery was considered most appropriate. Histopathology established the diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme. This case suggests a note of caution in every case of a rapidly evolving space-occupying lesion independently of the patient's previous history."
1208	"The introduction of immunotherapeutic agents has provided renewed hope for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia fludarabine-refractory patients. Several clinical trials have shown that alemtuzumab is a more effective option compared to combination chemotherapy for treatment of patients who have relapsed or who are refractory to fludarabine, including those with poor prognostic factors. Although there are significant potential toxicities associated with alemtuzumab, such as infusional reactions and the risk of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation, most are manageable. Pre-treatment anti-pyretics and anti-histamines are recommended to prevent or mitigate the acute infusional reactions associated with intravenous infusion. Recent use of alemtuzumab via the subcutaneous route has been shown to  be well tolerated and has yielded similar response rates to the infusional method of administration. Prophylaxis with thrimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole (TMP/SMZ) as  well as valacyclovir or a similar anti-viral can prevent many of the opportunistic infections seen in early trials. Reactivation of CMV infection can  be effectively managed with monitoring and early treatment. Chemo-immunotherapy combination with alemtuzumab has been tested and demonstrated unprecedented clinical results in relapsed and refractory patients. The use of this agent earlier in the algorithm of patients with these characteristics should be considered. Future areas of research will include the use of alemtuzumab in combination with other monoclonal antibodies and other targeted therapies."
1209	"Many biologic markers are associated with poor prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), but their mechanistic role remains unclear. Bax is an essential proapoptotic protein and decreased levels in malignant cells lead to resistance to apoptosis. Using a Bax degradation activity (BDA) assay, CLL cells were found  to show variable Bax instability. However, BDA did not correlate with Bax protein levels: BDA positive and negative cases had high and low baseline Bax levels. BDA positive cases showed a marked accumulation of poor prognostic markers-unmutated  immunoglobulin heavy chain variable genes, ZAP-70/CD38 positivity, 11q22/17p13 deletion, and short lymphocyte doubling time. Patients with BDA positive cells had a shorter median overall survival (OS; 126 months vs not reached, P = .011) and time to first treatment (16 vs 156 months, P = .029) than BDA negative cases. Dual BDA and ZAP-70 positivity had a median OS of 84 months (P = .012). The BDA assay measures the intrinsic ubiquitin/proteasome activity of CLL cells and dynamic changes in Bax protein levels over time. Mechanistically, Bax instability may represent a final common pathway for disparate prognostic markers, as well as being itself an indicator of poor prognosis."
1210	"We transduced chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells lacking ZAP-70 with vectors encoding ZAP-70 or various mutant forms of ZAP-70 and monitored the response of transduced CLL cells to treatment with F(ab)(2) anti-IgM (anti-mu). CLL cells made to express ZAP-70, a kinase-defective ZAP-70 (ZAP-70-KA(369)), or  a ZAP-70 unable to bind c-Cbl (ZAP-YF(292)) experienced greater intracellular calcium flux and had greater increases in the levels of phosphorylated p72(Syk),  B-cell linker protein (BLNK), and phospholipase C-gamma, and greater activation of the Ig accessory molecule CD79b in response to treatment with anti-mu than did mock-transfected CLL cells lacking ZAP-70. Transfection of CLL cells with vectors encoding truncated forms of ZAP-70 revealed that the SH2 domain, but not the SH1  domain, was necessary to enhance intracellular calcium flux in response to treatment with anti-mu. We conclude that ZAP-70 most likely acts as an adapter protein that facilitates B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling in CLL cells independent of its tyrosine kinase activity or its ability to interact with c-Cbl."
1211	"We recently reported that inhibition of Cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) reduced human B-CLL proliferation and survival. Herein, we investigated the mechanisms whereby  small molecule Cox-2 selective inhibitors, SC-58125 (a Celebrex analog) and CAY10404 blunt survival of human B-cell lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia B-cells. SC-58125 and OSU03012 (a Celebrex analog that lacks Cox-2 inhibitory activity) both decreased intracellular glutathione (GSH) content in malignant human B-cells, as well as in Cox-2 deficient mouse B-cells. This new finding supports Cox-2 independent effects of SC-58125. Interestingly, SC-58125 also significantly increased B-cell reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, suggesting that ROS are a pathway that reduces malignant cell survival. Addition  of GSH ethyl ester protected B lymphomas from the increased mitochondrial membrane permeability and reduced survival induced by SC-58125. Moreover, the SC-58125-mediated GSH depletion resulted in elevated steady-state levels of the glutamate cysteine ligase catalytic subunit mRNA and protein. These new findings  of increased ROS and diminished GSH levels following SC-58125 exposure support novel mechanisms whereby a Cox-2 selective inhibitor reduces malignant B-cell survival. These observations also support the concept that certain Cox-2 selective inhibitors may have therapeutic value in combination with other drugs to kill malignant B lineage cells."
1212	"To asses the real contribution of pre-transplantation treatment in the incidence  of secondary neoplasia after autologous transplant for lymphoproliferative disorders, we used stringent inclusion/exclusion criteria. One hundred and forty-two patients out of 323 that underwent autologous transplantation for lymphoproliferative disorders were studied. The risk factors that were evaluated  with univariate and multivariate analysis included: gender, sex, age, diagnosis,  radiotherapy, and chemotherapy prior to conditioning regimen, disease status at peripheral blood stem-cell transplantation (PBSCT) and type of harvest. Three patients developed secondary myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukemia (sMDS/AML) and three patients developed solid neoplasia. By univariate analysis diagnosis chronic lymphocytic leukemia and use of fludarabine and monoclonal antibodies were the only variables significantly associated with the development  of sMDS/AML. By multivariate analysis, the variables associated with sMDS/AML were the use of fludarabine and disease status at PBSCT. By univariate analysis,  we found that radiotherapy and the use of monoclonal antibodies were significantly associated with the development of secondary solid neoplasia. Multivariate analysis confirmed that the only two variables significantly associated with new cancers were radiotherapy and prior treatment with monoclonal antibodies. We report the lowest incidence of sMDS/AML after autologous stem-cell transplantation for lymphoproliferative malignancies. Major reasons could be ascribed to the stringent inclusion/exclusion criteria used to establish the real incidence of sMDS/AML because of chemo-radiotherapy used before transplant procedure. The low incidence of secondary solid tumors could be caused by the absence of total body irradiation as part of the conditioning regimen or the short follow-up."
1213	"For many years, alkylating agents and purine nucleoside analogs (PNA) have been considered the drug of choice for treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). More recently the introduction of monoclonal antibodies (mAb), especially  rituximab directed against CD20 and alemtuzumab directed against CD52, has renewed interest in CLL therapy. Over the last few years, several new mAbs directed against lymphoid cells have been developed and investigated in preclinical studies and clinical trials. Some of them are highly active in CLL. New mAbs directed against CD20 include human mAb ofatumumab (HuMax CD20), IMMU-106 (hA20) which has a >90% humanized framework and GA-101, a novel third -  generation fully humanized and optimized mAb. These agents are highly cytotoxic against B-cell lymphoid cells and are evaluated in CLL. Lumiliximab (anti-CD23 mAb) is a genetically engineered macaque-human immunoglobulin (Ig) A1. This antibody showed high activity and good tolerability in phase I clinical trial and is evaluated in phase I/II clinical trials as a single agent and in combination.  Epratuzumab is a humanized anti-CD22 mAb currently used in clinical trials for treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma and autoimmune disorders. Further studies are needed to elucidate the role of this agent in CLL. Apolizumab (HU1D10) is a humanized IgG1 antibody specific for a polymorphic determinant found on the HLA-DRbeta chain. Preclinical and early clinical studies suggest that this mAb has some activity in CLL. HCD122 (CHIR-12.12) and SGN-40 are anti-CD40 mAbs which induce cytotoxicity against CLL cells. Phase I study has shown a favorable safety profile and some activity of HCD122 in pretreated CLL patients. Immunotoxins, especially BL22, LMP-2 and denileukin diftitox, are also being evaluated in lymphoid malignancies and seem to be active in CLL. Finally, antiangiogenic mAbs, especially bevacimzumab, have a potential therapeutic role in this disease. In this review, new mAbs, potentially useful in CLL are presented."
1214	"BACKGROUND: The goal of this study was to optimize a cell staining procedure for  flow cytometric detection of zeta-chain associated protein-70 (ZAP-70). Our specific objectives were to improve antibody selection criteria, identify a cell  permeabilization procedure better tailored to ZAP-70 analysis, as well as to establish objective criteria to control antigen stability. METHODS: Sequentially titrated 2F3.2-FITC, 1E7.2-FITC, and 1E7.2-Alexa Fluor 488  anti-ZAP-70 antibodies were used to stain normal B and T cells and Scatchard analysis was applied to calculate K(d) and B(max) values from saturation curves of specific binding. ZAP-70 staining was compared in cells permeabilized with two commercially available kits, Triton X-100, and a custom saponin procedure. RESULTS: Normal B-cells were found to provide an excellent measure of nonspecific staining while varying ZAP-70 antibodies and concentrations. Comparing Scatchard  analyses of specific T-cell binding revealed that 1E7.2-Alexa Fluor 488 had the highest binding affinity of the tested anti-ZAP-70 antibodies and was the best choice. The highest levels of ZAP-70 fluorescence occurred when cells were permeabilized using a noncommercial saponin procedure. Decrease of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell viability correlated with diminished ZAP-70 expression; when viability was lower than 95% the percentage of bright positive samples was significantly decreased, indicating a possibility of false-negative results. CONCLUSIONS: The efficiency and reliability of flow cytometric detection of ZAP-70 can be optimized by using Scatchard analysis to help select the most effective antibodies and antibody concentrations that maximize specific to nonspecific binding, by using a "custom" ZAP-70 permeabilization procedure, and by better controlling antigen stability by measuring cell viability."
1217	"BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia whose cells express CD38 and ZAP-70 and utilize unmutated Ig VH region genes have a very poor prognosis. We studied whether cells expressing CD38 and ZAP-70 are more susceptible to stimulation through B-cell receptors than are cells that do not express CD38 and  ZAP-70. DESIGN AND METHODS: CD38-positive and CD38-negative leukemic cells were separated from single cases and compared for their response to B-cell receptor cross-linking and ZAP-70 expression. Cohort studies were also carried out by measuring the apoptotic response to surface immunoglobulin M (IgM) cross-linking  in 82 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the protein tyrosine phosphorylation induced by surface IgM in 21 patients. RESULTS: CD38-positive cells, isolated from cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia classified as CD38-positive or CD38-negative, expressed more ZAP-70 than the corresponding CD38-negative cells, exhibited more robust protein tyrosine phosphorylation and had a greater tendency to apoptosis upon B-cell receptor cross-linking. In the cohort studies, surface IgM-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation correlated significantly with CD38 and ZAP-70 expression and with the absence of Ig VH gene mutations. Apoptosis induced by surface IgM cross-linking correlated significantly only with the proportion of CD38-positive  cells. Difficulties in finding more definitive correlations were probably related to imprecision in the in vitro test system and in the definition of cases as positive or negative. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these data indicate that CD38-positive, ZAP-70-positive cells have a greater capacity for signaling through the B-cell receptor and suggest a function for B-cell receptor signaling in promoting chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell expansion, especially within the CD38-positive  fraction of the leukemic clone."
1218	"Autoimmune thrombocytopenia is a common immunehematologic complication in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and may complicate the treatment. We analyzed an original series from our institute as well as published cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia) associated with autoimmune thrombocytopenia with regard to demographic factors, prevalence in non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma subtypes and treatment outcome. The male/female ratio is 1.75. Half of the cases occurred prior to diagnosis of lymphoma. Chemotherapy is the best treatment in many non-Hodgkin's lymphomas patients with autoimmune thrombocytopenia compared with standard treatment of autoimmune thrombocytopenia. Splenectomy is effective in splenic marginal zone lymphoma. Autoimmune thrombocytopenia in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphomas is potentially life-threatening and difficult to treat."
1219	"Abnormal expression of the costimulatory molecules cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), CD28, and inducible co-stimulator (ICOS) leads to disturbances of immune response and an increased risk of cancer. An extended study was undertaken to evaluate the association among the polymorphisms CTLA-4c.49A>G, CTLA-4g.319C>T, CTLA-4g.*642AT(8_33), CD28c.17+3T>C, and ICOSc.1554+4GT(8_15) and susceptibility to B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) in the Polish population. The study revealed increased frequency of the CTLA-4g.319C>T [T] allele and the CTLA-4g.319C>T [T] phenotype in B-CLL patients compared with healthy controls (p = 0.003, odds ratio [OR] = 1.73; and p = 0.009, OR = 1.74, respectively). The presence of the CD28c.17+3T>C [C] allele and the CD28c.17+3T>C [C] phenotype increased the OR of B-CLL to 1.59 (p = 0.007) and 1.74 (p = 0.007), respectively. Either CTLA-4g.319C>T or CD28c.17+3T>C was associated with time to  Rai stage progression. The distributions of the alleles and genotypes of the ICOS gene significantly differed between patients and controls (p = 0.0009 and p = 0.006, respectively). Individuals possessing short alleles were 2.02 times more prone to B-CLL than others (p = 0.001), whereas carriers of long alleles were protected from B-CLL (p = 0.02, OR = 0.62). The haplotype association study and multivariate analysis confirmed the association of CTLA-4g.319C>T and ICOSc.1554+4GT(8_15) gene polymorphisms with B-CLL. The polymorphic sites CTLA-4c.49A>G and CTLA-4g.*642AT(8_33) did not correlate with B-CLL. Our results  are the first in the literature to report that gene polymorphism of the costimulatory molecules CTLA-4, CD28, and ICOS contributes to susceptibility to B-CLL."
1220	"The association between Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis or other Motor Neuron Diseases (MNDs) with Lymphoproliferative Disorders (LPDs) and plasma cell neoplasias (such as Hodgkin's or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, multiple myeloma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia) has been described. It is not clear whether LPDs play a role in the pathogenesis of MND; however it is possible that patients might have antibodies against motor neurons. An association between motor neuron disease and Multiple myeloma (MM) is rarely reported in the literature. This article reports a case of a 75-year-old male with MM and MND. Interestingly, the patient was in complete remission for MM when he was diagnosed as MND and he died due to progressive MND."
1221	"BACKGROUND: Patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) have heterogeneous clinical courses, thus several biological parameters need to be added to the current clinical staging systems to predict disease outcome. Recent  immunophenotypic studies performed mainly in Western populations have demonstrated the prognostic value of CD38 and ZAP-70 expression in B-CLL. OBJECTIVES: To investigate the expression pattern of a variety of membrane antigens on leukemic cells from Iranian patients with CLL and to find out if there are any differences in the expression of these markers between indolent and progressive groups. METHODS: In the present study, peripheral blood samples from 87 Iranian patients  with B-CLL were analysed by flow cytometry. RESULTS: In all cases, the neoplastic cells displayed B-CLL phenotype (CD5+/CD19+/sIg+). The vast majority of the cases expressed CD23, but failed to stain for CD3 or CD14. The leukemic cells of most patients expressed CD27 (84/87, 95.4%) and CD45RO (74/87, 83.9%) molecules, suggesting a memory B-cell phenotype. Comparison between the indolent (n=42) and progressive (n=37) patients revealed significantly higher frequency and intensity of CD38 expression in progressive group (40.5%) compared to indolent (11.9%) patients (p<0.05). None of the other membrane antigens were differentially expressed in these two groups of patients. CONCLUSION: Our results obtained in an Asian ethnic population confirm and extend previous findings obtained from Western populations regarding the association of  CD38 expression and disease progression in B-CLL."
1222	"BACKGROUND: Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is an aggressive skin cancer with a mortality of 33%. Advanced disease at diagnosis is a poor prognostic factor, suggesting that earlier detection may improve outcome. No systematic analysis has been published to define the clinical features that are characteristic of MCC. OBJECTIVE: We sought to define the clinical characteristics present at diagnosis  to identify features that may aid clinicians in recognizing MCC. METHODS: We conducted a cohort study of 195 patients given the diagnosis of MCC between 1980 and 2007. Data were collected prospectively in the majority of cases, and medical records were reviewed. RESULTS: An important finding was that 88% of MCCs were asymptomatic (nontender)  despite rapid growth in the prior 3 months (63% of lesions) and being red or pink (56%). A majority of MCC lesions (56%) were presumed at biopsy to be benign, with a cyst/acneiform lesion being the single most common diagnosis (32%) given. The median delay from lesion appearance to biopsy was 3 months (range 1-54 months), and median tumor diameter was 1.8 cm. Similar to earlier studies, 81% of primary  MCCs occurred on ultraviolet-exposed sites, and our cohort was elderly (90% >50 years), predominantly white (98%), and often profoundly immune suppressed (7.8%). An additional novel finding was that chronic lymphocytic leukemia was more than 30-fold overrepresented among patients with MCC. LIMITATIONS: The study was limited to patients seen at a tertiary care center. Complete clinical data could not be obtained on all patients. This study could not assess the specificity of the clinical characteristics of MCC. CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this study is the first to define clinical features that may serve as clues in the diagnosis of MCC. The most significant features can be summarized in an acronym: AEIOU (asymptomatic/lack of tenderness, expanding rapidly, immune suppression, older than 50 years, and ultraviolet-exposed site on a person with fair skin). In our series, 89% of primary MCCs had 3 or more of these findings. Although MCC is uncommon, when present in combination, these features may indicate a concerning process that would warrant biopsy. In particular, a lesion that is red and expanding rapidly yet asymptomatic should be of concern."
1223	"PURPOSE: To test whether nelarabine is an effective agent for indolent leukemias  and to evaluate whether there is a relationship between cellular pharmacokinetics of the analog triphosphate and clinical responses. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-five patients with relapsed/refractory leukemias (n  = 24, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and n = 11, T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia) were entered onto three different protocols. For schedule A, patient received nelarabine daily for 5 days, whereas for schedule B, nelarabine was administered on days 1, 3, and 5. Schedule C was similar to schedule B except that fludarabine was also infused. Plasma and cellular pharmacokinetics were studied during the first cycle. RESULTS: Responses were achieved in 20%, 15%, and 63% of patients receiving schedule A, B, and C, respectively. Histologic category, number of prior therapies, and fludarabine refractoriness did not influence the response rate. The most common nonhematologic toxicity was peripheral neuropathy. Grade 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia complicated 23% and 26% of courses respectively, and were significantly more frequent among patients with pre-existing marrow failure. Pharmacokinetics of plasma nelarabine and arabinosylguanine (ara-G) and  of cellular ara-G triphosphate (ara-GTP) were similar in the two groups of diagnoses, and the elimination of ara-GTP from leukemia cells was slow (median, > 24 hours). The median peak intracellular concentrations of ara-GTP were significantly different (P = .0003) between responders (440 micromol/L; range, 35 to 1,438 micromol/L; n = 10) and nonresponders (50 micromol/L; range, 22 to 178 micromol/L; n = 15). CONCLUSION: Nelarabine is an effective regimen against indolent leukemias, and combining it with fludarabine was most promising. Determination of tumor cell ara-GTP levels may provide a predictive test for response to nelarabine."
1224	"p53 is implemented in many processes controlling cell fate. Recently it has been  reported that besides post-translational modifications and regulation of protein-protein interactions, the activity of p53 is also substantially controlled at transcriptional level. In 109 out of 127 (86%) patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) we have identified a novel p53 splicing variant, lacking the whole coding sequence of exon 6. This splicing p53 isoform ("delta ex6") is devoid of transactivational activity and is differentially expressed in CLL patients as compared to healthy controls. The overexpression of  "delta ex6" p53 variant in CLL patients supports the recent evidence on dysregulation of p53 splicing pattern in malignancies."
1225	"Cases of leukemia associated with Turner syndrome (TS) are rare. Here we report three TS patients with leukemia including one case of T-large granular lymphocyte leukemia (T-LGL), one rare case of coexistence of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF) and one case of a patient with AML-M2 who received autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT). T-LGL and coexistence of CLL and IMF associated with TS are reported for the first time while the last case represents the first report of SCT in a leukemia patient with TS. Our cases  and the limited data of previously reported leukemia patients with TS suggest that TS is not associated with a specific type of leukemia and that presentation, clinical course and response to treatment are similar to that of the non-TS leukemia patients. However, these patients may have a higher risk of liver complications. Interestingly, in the mosaic TS patients, the abnormal clones were restricted to the monosomic 45,X cells, indicating that the leukemic clones possibly originate from the monosomic cell line. Even in cases with no additional chromosome abnormalities, the ratio of X/XX cells in bone marrow cells was significantly increased compared to that in constitutional karyotype, indicating  that monosomic cells possibly provide a survival advantage for leukemia cells or  that reduced programmed cell death may be responsible for the expansion of the monosomic cells."
1226	"Constitutively activated pathways contribute to apoptosis resistance in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Little is known about the metabolism of lipids and function of lipases in CLL cells. Performing gene expression profiling including  B-cell receptor (BCR) stimulation of CLL cells in comparison to healthy donor CD5+ B cells, we found significant overexpression of lipases and phospholipases in CLL cells. In addition, we observed that the recently defined prognostic factor lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is induced by stimulation of BCR in CLL cells but not in CD5+ normal B cells. CLL cellular lysates exhibited significantly higher lipase activity compared to healthy donor controls. Incubation of primary CLL cells (n=26) with the lipase inhibitor orlistat resulted in induction of apoptosis, with a half-maximal dose (IC(50)) of 2.35 microM. In healthy B cells a significantly higher mean IC(50) of 148.5 microM of orlistat was observed, while  no apoptosis was induced in healthy peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs; P<0.001). Orlistat-mediated cytotoxicity was decreased by BCR stimulation. Finally, the cytotoxic effects of orlistat on primary CLL cells were enhanced by  the simultaneous incubation with fludarabine (P=0.003). In summary, alterations of lipid metabolism are involved in CLL pathogenesis and might represent a novel  therapeutic target in CLL."
1227	"Follicular lymphoma (FL) generally expresses immunoglobulin (Ig) with somatically mutated variable (V) region genes. Surprisingly, these almost always carry introduced motifs available for N-glycosylation (Asn-X-Ser/Thr). Introduced motifs are uncommon on normal B cells, but are on other germinal center (GC)-associated B-cell malignancies suggesting a site-specific role. They are not evident in mutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or myeloma. Recently, we found that the glycosylation sites are unusual in containing oligomannose glycans, which are apparently displayed on tumor cell surface IgM. This suggests  a potential interaction with a mannose receptor in the GC. However, natural N-glycosylation sites exist in germline (GL) V region genes, particularly the V4-34 gene expressed by normal B cells and by some malignancies, including CLL, potentially undermining the selective importance for FL. To compare oligosaccharide addition at the introduced and natural sites, we expressed V region genes as single chain Fv (scFv) and analyzed the added glycans. In contrast to introduced sites, which were oligomannosylated, the natural GL motif  in the V4-34 sequence had no added sugars. The remarkable selective glycosylation within the heavy chain V region gene of FL apparently permits only limited processing to oligomannose at somatically mutated motifs, creating a feature exploitable by GC lymphomas."
1228	"Abnormalities of the TP53 gene are associated with a particularly severe prognosis in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). This tumor-suppressor is mostly inactivated by the deletion of one and point mutation  of the other allele and has not been previously shown to be hypermutated in B-CLL. We identified two patients whose lymphocytes showed repeatedly an extensive proportion of TP53 mutated cells by FASAY analysis (the yeast functional assay) and harbored various TP53 mutations, mostly single-base substitutions, in individual cells. The mutation targeting exhibited characteristic traits of the somatic hypermutation process. In the first patient  (harboring the unmutated IgVH locus) a significant bias to point mutations at CG  pairs (21/25; P=0.009), their remarkable preference for the RGYW/WRCY motives (28%) and the highest expression of the activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) mRNA among the 34 tested B-CLL samples. In the second patient no CG bias was observed but the targeting of point mutations into the RGYW/WRCY motives was  even more prominent here (7/16; 44%). Moreover, six out of eight point mutations  affecting AT pairs were localized in the WA/TW motives, which are also characteristic for the somatic hypermutations. This patient, who was IgVH-mutated, already did not express any significant amount of the AID transcript. Our findings add a new aspect to the mosaic of the p53 mutability in  B-CLL."
1229	"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) is the most common adult leukemia in the U.S., and is currently incurable. Though a small number of biomarkers that may correlate to risk of disease progression or treatment outcome in CLL have been discovered, few have been validated in prospective studies or adopted in clinical practice. In order to address this gap in knowledge, it is desirable to discover  and test hypotheses that are concerned with translational biomarker-to-phenotype  correlations. We report upon a study in which commonly available ontologies were  utilized to support the discovery of such translational correlations. We have specifically applied a technique known as constructive induction to reason over the contents of a research data repository utilized by the NCI-funded CLL Research Consortium. Our findings indicate that such an approach can produce semantically meaningful results that can inform hypotheses about higher-level relationships between the types of data contained in such a repository."
1231	"We examined the sera of six patients before and after i.v. infusions of autologous chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells transduced ex vivo with an adenovirus encoding CD154 (Ad-CD154). Five patients made high-titer antibodies against adenovirus and three made IgG reactive with a leukemia-associated surface antigen, which we identified as ROR1. Anti-ROR1 antibodies were not detected in the sera of untreated patients. We generated anti-ROR1 mAbs and found they reacted specifically with the CLL cells of all patients, but not with nonleukemic leukocytes, a wide variety of normal adult tissues, or blood mononuclear cells, including CD5(+) B cells of healthy adults. ROR1 could bind Wnt5a, which induced  activation of NF-kappaB when coexpressed with ROR1 in HEK293 cells and enhanced the survival of CLL cells in vitro, an effect that could be neutralized by posttreatment anti-ROR1 antisera. We conclude that patients with CLL can break immune tolerance to ROR1, which is an oncofetal surface antigen and survival-signaling receptor in this neoplastic disease."
1232	"Nucleoside transporters (NTs) are essential for the uptake of therapeutic nucleoside analogs, broadly used in cancer treatment. The mechanisms responsible  for NT regulation are largely unknown. IL-4 is a pro-survival signal for chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells and has been shown to confer resistance to nucleoside analogs. The aim of this study was to investigate whether IL-4 is able to modulate the expression and function of the human equilibrative NT1 (hENT1) in primary cultures of CLL cells and, consequently, to affect cytotoxicity induced by therapeutic nucleosides analogs. We found that treatment with IL-4 (20 ng/ml for 24 h) increased mRNA hENT1 expression in CLL cells without affecting that of  normal B cells. Given that the enhanced mRNA levels of hENT1 in CLL cells did not result in increased transport activity, we examined the possibility that hENT1 induced by IL-4 may require post-translational modifications to become active. We found that the acute stimulation of PKC in IL-4-treated CLL cells by short-term incubation with PMA significantly increased hENT1 transport activity and favoured fludarabine-induced apoptosis. By contrast, and in line with previous reports, IL-4 plus PMA protected CLL cells from a variety of cytotoxic agents. Our findings indicate that the combined treatment with IL-4 and PMA enhances hENT1 activity and specifically sensitizes CLL cells to undergo apoptosis induced by fludarabine."
1233	"In this study, we explored the telomeric changes that occur in B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), in which telomere length has recently been demonstrated to be a powerful prognostic marker. We carried out a transcriptomic  analysis of telomerase components (hTERT and DYSKERIN), shelterin proteins (TRF1, TRF2, hRAP1, TIN2, POT1, and TPP1), and a set of multifunctional proteins involved in telomere maintenance (hEST1A, MRE11, RAD50, Ku80, and RPA1) in peripheral B cells from 42 B-CLL patients and 20 healthy donors. We found that, in B-CLL cells, the expressions of hTERT, DYSKERIN, TRF1, hRAP1, POT1, hEST1A, MRE11, RAD50, and KU80 were more than 2-fold reduced (P < .001), contrasting with the higher expression of TPP1 and RPA1 (P < .001). This differential expression pattern suggests that both telomerase down-regulation and changes in telomeric proteins composition are involved in the pathogenesis of B-CLL."
1237	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a biologically heterogeneous illness with a variable clinical course. Loss of chromosomal material on chromosome 13 at cytoband 13q14 is the most frequent genetic abnormality in CLL, but the molecular aberrations underlying del13q14 in CLL remain incompletely characterized. We analyzed 171 CLL cases for loss of heterozygosity and subchromosomal copy loss on chromosome 13 in DNA from fluorescence-activated cell sorting-sorted CD19(+) cells and paired buccal cells using the Affymetrix XbaI 50k SNP array platform. The resulting high-resolution genomic maps, together with array-based measurements of expression levels of RNA in CLL cases with and without del13q14 and quantitative PCR-based expression analysis of selected genes, support the following conclusions: (a) del13q14 is heterogeneous and composed of multiple subtypes, with deletion of Rb or the miR15a/miR16 loci serving as anatomic landmarks, respectively; (b) del13q14 type Ia deletions are relatively uniform in length and extend from breakpoints close to the miR15a/miR16 cluster to a newly identified telomeric breakpoint cluster at the approximately 50.2 to 50.5 Mb physical position; (c) LATS2 RNA levels are approximately 2.6-fold to 2.8-fold lower in cases with del13q14 type I that do not delete Rb, as opposed to del13q14 type II or all other CLL cases; (d) PHLPP RNA is absent in approximately 50% of CLL cases with del13q14; and (e) approximately 15% of CLL cases display marked reductions in miR15a/miR16 expression that are often but not invariably associated with bi-allelic miR15a/miR16 loss. These data should aid future investigations into biological differences imparted on CLL by different del13q14  subtypes."
1239	"Based on the concept that the tumorogenesis in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia comprises both an initial, inherited mutation and subsequent somatic mutations, the pleiotypic diversity of familial chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and related malignant lymphoproliferative disorders is generally explained by a repertoire of monoallelic polygenes in the initial mutation. Epigenetic genomic imprinting is a likely mechanism behind of the asynchroneous replicating monoallelic polygenes which is discussed in the light of pleiotrophy and birth order effect. Furthermore, it is discussed that one possible mechanism available for the epigenetic transfer of these genes could be the physiological pregnancy-related microchimerism between mother and fetus."
1242	"CD200 was recently described as a new prognosis factor in multiple myeloma and acute myeloid leukemia. CD200 is a membrane glycoprotein that imparts an immunoregulatory signal through CD200R, leading to the suppression of T-cell-mediated immune responses. We investigated the expression of CD200 in cancer using publicly available gene expression data. CD200 gene expression in normal or malignant human tissues or cell lines was obtained from the Oncomine Cancer Microarray database, Amazonia database and the ITTACA database. We found significant overexpression of CD200 in renal carcinoma, head and neck carcinoma,  testicular cancer, malignant mesothelioma, colon carcinoma, MGUS/smoldering myeloma, and in chronic lymphocytic leukemia compared to their normal cells or their tissue counterparts. Moreover, we show that CD200 expression is associated  with tumor progression in various cancers. Taken together, these data suggest that CD200 is a potential therapeutic target and prognostic factor for a large array of malignancies."
1243	"Lumiliximab is a chimeric macaque-human monoclonal antibody to CD23, a protein expressed on virtually all chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. We examined  the ability of lumiliximab to mediate apoptosis, antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, and complement-dependent cytotoxicity against primary CLL cells and CD23-expressing B-cell lines. Our data suggest that lumiliximab kills CLL cells and CD23-expressing B cells predominantly by apoptosis, which occurs through the  intrinsic pathway. Lumiliximab-induced apoptosis was accompanied by the down-regulation of antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), and XIAP, activation of Bax, and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria. We also found that the addition of lumiliximab to rituximab or fludarabine results in synergistic cytotoxicity of primary CLL cells and CD23-expressing B-cell lines. We investigated the in vivo activity of lumiliximab in a human disseminated CD23(+)  B-cell lymphoma SCID mouse model and found greater antitumor activity with it than with control antibody. We also found that paralysis-free survival was greater with lumiliximab plus rituximab or fludarabine than with any of those agents alone. These results suggest that lumiliximab may be an effective treatment alone or in combination with rituximab or chemotherapy agents in CLL or other CD23-overexpressing B-cell malignancies."
1245	"Safety and efficacy of the fully human anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, ofatumumab, was analyzed in a multicenter dose-escalating study including 33 patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Three cohorts of 3 (A), 3 (B), and 27 (C) patients received 4, once weekly, infusions of ofatumumab at the  following doses: (A) one 100 mg and three 500 mg; (B) one 300 mg and three 1000 mg; (C) one 500 mg and three 2000 mg. Sixty-seven percent of the patients were Binet stage B, and the median number of previous treatments was 3. The maximum tolerated dose was not reached. The majority of related adverse events occurred at first infusion, and the number of adverse events decreased at each subsequent  infusion. Seventeen (51%) of 33 patients experienced infections, 88% of them of grade 1-2. One event of interstitial pneumonia was fatal; all other cases resolved within one month. The response rate of cohort C was 50% (13/26), one patient having a nodular partial remission and 12 patients partial remission. In  conclusion, ofatumumab was found to be well tolerated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in doses up to 2000 mg. Preliminary data on safety and objective response are encouraging and support further studies on the role of ofatumumab in CLL patients. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as no. NCT00093314."
1246	"The prevalence, clinical characteristics, and prognostic significance of immune thrombocytopenia (IT) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have not been clearly determined. To clarify this, we retrospectively analyzed 1278 consecutive newly diagnosed patients with CLL. Criteria for IT diagnosis included the following: rapid (< 2 weeks) and severe fall (half of the initial level and below 100 x 10(9)/L) in platelet count; normal or augmented megakaryocytes in bone marrow; no or limited (not palpable) splenomegaly; no cytotoxic treatment in the preceding month. Sixty-four patients (5%) were diagnosed with IT. The median  time to IT from CLL diagnosis was 13 months (range, 0-81 months), and median platelet count at IT diagnosis was 14 x 10(9)/L (range, 1-71 x 10(9)/L). Fifty-six of the 64 patients (87%) received treatment for IT. The probability of  responding to treatment for IT was significantly higher for patients receiving chemotherapy with or without steroids than for patients treated with intravenous  immunoglobulins with or without steroids (P = .01). The development of IT was significantly associated with unmutated IgVh, a positive direct antiglobulin test, and the occurrence of autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Patients with CLL and IT had poorer survival than other patients with CLL (5-year overall survival 64% vs  82%, P < .001), and this effect was independent from common clinical prognostic variables."
1248	"Vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, SAHA) is a histone deacetylase inhibitor active clinically in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and preclinically in leukemia. A phase 1 study was conducted to evaluate the safety and activity of oral vorinostat 100 to 300 mg twice or thrice daily for 14 days followed by 1-week rest. Patients with relapsed or refractory leukemias or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and untreated patients who were not candidates for chemotherapy were eligible. Of 41 patients, 31 had acute myeloid leukemia (AML), 4 chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 3 MDS, 2 acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and 1 chronic myelocytic leukemia. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was 200 mg twice daily or 250 mg thrice daily. Dose-limiting toxicities were fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Common drug-related adverse experiences were diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, and anorexia and were mild/moderate in severity. Grade 3/4 drug-related adverse experiences included fatigue (27%), thrombocytopenia (12%), and diarrhea (10%). There were no drug-related deaths; 7 patients had hematologic improvement response, including 2 complete responses and 2 complete responses with incomplete blood count recovery (all with AML treated at/below MTD). Increased histone acetylation was observed at all doses. Antioxidant gene expression may confer vorinostat resistance. Further evaluation of vorinostat in AML/MDS is warranted."
1249	"Somatic hypermutation (SHM) features in a series of 1967 immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IGH) rearrangements obtained from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) were examined and compared with IGH sequences from non-CLL B cells available in public databases. SHM analysis was performed for all 1290 CLL sequences in this cohort with less than 100% identity to germ line. At the cohort level, SHM patterns were typical of a canonical SHM process. However, important differences emerged from the analysis of certain subgroups of CLL sequences defined by: (1) IGHV gene usage, (2) presence of stereotyped heavy chain complementarity-determining region 3 (HCDR3) sequences, and (3) mutational load.  Recurrent, "stereotyped" amino acid changes occurred across the entire IGHV region in CLL subsets carrying stereotyped HCDR3 sequences, especially those expressing the IGHV3-21 and IGHV4-34 genes. These mutations are underrepresented  among non-CLL sequences and thus can be considered as CLL-biased. Furthermore, it was shown that even a low level of mutations may be functionally relevant, given  that stereotyped amino acid changes can be found in subsets of minimally mutated  cases. The precise targeting and distinctive features of somatic hypermutation (SHM) in selected subgroups of CLL patients provide further evidence for selection by specific antigenic element(s)."
1250	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is caused by the abnormal accumulation  of non-functional B-cells in peripheral blood and bone marrow. However, the precise aetiology and mechanism of the disease are unclear. Recently, progress has been made in the identification of both the genetic deficiencies and environmental factors that may underlie CLL. This has provided some clues to the  nature of the disease, but no definitive cures. Although treatment has increased  remission time, at present the disease is not curable by conventional therapy. Further studies of the pathogenesis of CLL are needed, as are the development of  suitable cell lines and animal models in which to study it. This review summarises the most recent progress in CLL with emphasis on molecular events and  possible implications in therapy."
1251	"OBJECTIVES: To evaluate variation in smoking-related leukemia risk with time-since-exposure. METHODS: We analyzed data from a population-based case-control study conducted in Germany. Odds ratios were estimated by applying conditional logistic regression methods to 470 incident leukemia cases and 1,009 controls. Cases were classified  as acute non-lymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Temporal  variation in the impact of smoking on leukemia risk was assessed via exposure time-windows and a spline latency function. RESULTS: Current smokers were at greater risk of ANLL than those who never smoked (OR = 1.65 95% CI: 0.95, 2.87) and a positive trend was observed in ANLL risk with cumulative pack-decades smoked, under a 2-year exposure lag assumption (OR/pack-decade = 1.11 95% CI: 0.96, 1.30). This was primarily due to the association between ANLL and smoking in the period 2 to <10 years prior (OR/pack-decade = 2.72 95% CI: 0.93, 7.99). There was minimal evidence of association between ANLL risk and packs smoked 10 or more years prior. CML and ALL exhibited minimal evidence of association with smoking status. CLL exhibited  a positive association with smoking in the periods 2 to <10 years and 10 to <20 years prior to diagnosis although estimates of association were highly imprecise. CONCLUSIONS: The temporal pattern of smoking-induced ANLL risk appears to follow  a prompt peak in excess incidence that diminishes with time since exposure."
1252	"Rituximab is increasingly used off label for difficult-to-treat auto-immune diseases. We reviewed the main case series or clinical studies to identify the best indications of rituximab and the situations at substantial risks for adverse events. Refractory immune thrombocytopenic purpura was the main indication. However, the long term benefit-to-risk ratio of rituximab treatment before or after splenectomy is unknown. A single 375 mg/m2 infusion may be as efficacious as the classical four infusions cycle. Rituximab is the best treatment for cold agglutinin disease. In warm agglutinin auto-immune anaemia, its efficacy has essentially been reported in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients and in children. In CLL patients, lethal adverse events occurred in patients also receiving cyclophosphamide. Rituximab seems to have an interesting benefit-to-risk ratio in Wegener granulomatosis (excepted in granulomatous lesions), HCV-associated symptomatic cryoglobulinemia in patients unresponsive to anti-viral therapy, pemphigus and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. Efficacy and safety data in lupus are difficult to interpret. Serum sickness disease is not exceptional in immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), lupus and sicca syndrome patients. A substantial infectious risk has been reported in pemphigus patients and in post-renal transplant cryoglobulinemia. Double-blind randomised controlled trials and phase IV studies are mandatory in most clinical settings to confirm the overall favourable perception of rituximab benefit to risk ratio."
1253	"Alemtuzumab is usually associated with opportunistic infections. We have treated  67 patients, 8 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and 59 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with campath. Among CLL patients, 6 used alemtuzumab in first line, alone or with chemotherapy, 41 as consolidation therapy and 11 as salvage therapy, 3 alone and  8 with chemotherapy. In our series opportunistic infections were prevalently found in patients submitted to alemtuzumab salvage therapy (33.3%), with or without chemotherapy; in particular 1 pulmonary nocardiosis, 1 tubercolosis. Also during the first line alemtuzumab therapy one case of lysteriosis and one case of HBV reactivation were found (33.3%). No opportunistic infections were diagnosed to our CLL patients in consolidation therapy, when the underlying hematologic disease was reduced or present only as minimal residual disease. A good response  of malignancy, namely CLL, to induction therapy, such as a less aggressive schedule of therapy, determine a lower risk of immunosuppression and therefore a  low number of opportunistic infections."
1254	"BACKGROUND: Flow cytometry allows specific assessment of the expression of ZAP-70, a promising new prognostic factor in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (B-CLL), but suffers from a lack of multicenter standardization. DESIGN AND METHODS: An optimized method for direct detection of ZAP-70 in flow cytometry was tested in a multicenter fashion. Adapted for frozen cells, this method includes a normalization step by addition of B cells from a pool of peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected from normal donors. ZAP-70 expression levels were assessed for 153 patients with typical B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Results were expressed as the  ratio of ZAP-70 mean fluorescence intensity between B-CLL cells and normal B cells. RESULTS: The statistically optimized cut-off of ZAP-70 positivity was a ratio of  1.4. Concordance between ZAP-70 and CD38 expression was 67%. Concordance between  the mutational status of IgVH genes and ZAP-70 or CD38 expression was 87% and 65%, respectively. ZAP-70 was significantly expressed in 28%, 54% and 61% of patients with Binet stages A, B and C B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, respectively (p=0.008). The absence of ZAP-70 expression was associated with isolated del(13q14), a cytogenetic abnormality with a good prognosis, while most  patients with the del(17p13) poor prognosis cytogenetic marker expressed ZAP-70 (p<10(-5)). ZAP-70 expression was not related to the other poor prognosis cytogenetic abnormality del(11q22.3) nor to trisomy 12. CONCLUSIONS: This new technique provides highly reliable results well correlated  with the mutational status of IgVH genes, CD38 expression, Binet stage and cytogenetic abnormalities. This robust discriminative technique appears of particular interest for routine diagnosis and assessment of ZAP-70 expression in  large, prospective, multicenter therapeutic trials."
1255	"We studied the clinical impact of CD38 expression in 226 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients (CLL) at disease presentation and during follow up to determine its prognostic significance, progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), and to verify whether this parameter changed over time. Various patients' characteristics were studied including gender, Rai and Binet stages, immunoglobulin light chain expression, lymphocyte doubling time and CD38 expression. After a median follow up of 53 months (range 6-282), 62% CD38 positive(+) patients required therapy. PFS and OS at 84 months were significantly lower for CD38(+) patients: 20 and 71% respectively, compared to CD38 negative(-): 70 and 96%. At multivariate analysis CD38(+) showed to be the best factor for predicting progression: HR 3.3, 95%CI 2.10-5.14, p = 0.000. Its expression did not change in 98% re-evaluated patients. We confirm that CD38(+) is a stable parameter for the identification of CLL patients with a more aggressive disease course."
1257	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia has a highly variable clinical course with behavior ranging from indolent to aggressive. Identified prognostic markers include IgV(H) mutational status, and CD38 and ZAP-70 expression. In several studies, ZAP-70 expression correlated with IgV(H) mutational status, and predicted disease progression and overall survival. In addition to its prognostic utility, ZAP-70 expression was found to be constant over time, and did not vary between peripheral blood, bone marrow or lymph node specimens in individual patients. In contrast to these reports, we present three CLL patients with discordant ZAP-70 levels. One demonstrated a change in expression with time; the  second and third cases had discordant results in blood, lymph node and bone marrow and between blood and bone marrow specimens, respectively, obtained at the same time."
1258	"Mycobacterium szulgai is a pathogenic organism that most frequently causes pulmonary infection and may rarely result in disseminated disease in immunocompromised individuals. We report a case of multifocal osteomyelitis and cutaneous lesions due to M. szulgai in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The successful treatment of multifocal osteomyelitis was accomplished using isoniazid, rifampin, and ethambutol."
1261	"MUM1/IRF4 is normally expressed in late germinal center/post germinal center B-cells. Previous studies of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in bone marrow and lymph node have demonstrated variable expression of MUM1/IRF4 and conflicting prognostic significance. In this study we evaluated MUM1/IRF4 expression in peripheral blood CLL cells utilizing Histogel cell blocks. MUM1/IRF4 was absent in 4/36 (11%) specimens. The remaining cases demonstrated variable intensity and  proportion of positive cells: <20% positive 16/36 (44%), 20 - 50% positive 12/36  (33%), >50% 4/36 (11%). No correlation was identified between MUM1/IRF4 and percent of CD38 positive cells, CD38 status (+/-), ZAP-70 status (+/-), and IgVH  mutational status. The variability in MUM1/IRF4 staining suggests a level of biologic complexity that is not adequately reflected in the current binary models of CLL pathobiology. This heterogeneity may reflect the role of MUM1/IRF4 as an effector and integrator of several lymphocyte activation pathways including antigenic and environmental stimuli."
1262	"Linkage has implicated variation in 18q24 in genetic susceptibility to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). 18q24 harbors mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 7 (SMAD7), an intracellular antagonist of TGF-beta signaling which participates in a negative feedback loop controlling growth arrest and apoptosis of B-cells. Recently we have demonstrated variation in SMAD7, defined by the single nucleotide polymorphism rs12953717, to be strongly associated with risk of colorectal cancer. Given that many polymorphic variants have pleiotropic effects  we explore the relationship between polymorphic variation at rs12953717 and CLL we compared the frequency of genotypes in 984 cases and 4831 healthy controls. There was therefore no evidence for an association between rs12953717 genotype and CLL; P = 0.40 (allelic test) with ORs of 0.99 (95% CI: 0.85 - 1.16) and 0.91  (95% CI: 0.74 - 1.11) for heterozygotes and TT homozygotes, respectively. These data suggests variation at SMAD7 does not significantly contribute to an inherited susceptibility to CLL."
1265	"CD45 is a glycoprotein expressed in all lymphohemopoietic cells. Its expression increases during B-lymphocyte ontogeny. Few data are available about CD45 expression in the various types of low-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). Low levels of CD45 have been reported in pathologic lymphocytes from typical chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and higher levels of this antigen have been observed in some cases of atypical CLL and in some cases of other types of NHL. One hundred and seven bone marrow samples of NHL with bone marrow infiltration were investigated: 45 typical CLL, 15 atypical CLL, 9 mantle cell lymphomas (MCL), 1 MCL with CD23 expression, 18 marginal zone lymphomas (MZL), 6  lymphoplasmacytic lymphomas (LPL), 6 follicular lymphomas (FL), and 7 hairy cell  leukemias (HCL). CD45 expression was evaluated by flow cytometry: pathologic lymphocytes were identified on the basis of specific immunophenotypic profile, CD19/K or CD19/lambda co-expression. Results were expressed as median fluorescence intensity (MFI) along a 1024 linear scale. CD45 expression was measured also on autologous T-lymphocytes and a "CD45 index" was calculated as the ratio MFI of pathologic B-lymphocytes/MFI of T-lymphocytes, to normalize the  results obtained. We found four CD45 expression patterns: very low in typical CLL; relatively low in MCL; intermediate intensity in MZL, LPL, and FL; very high expression in HCL. Among the atypical cases, very high CD45 expression was found  in one case of CD23-negative CLL, in CD23-positive MCL, and CLL with atypical morphology. The results indicate different levels of maturation in low-grade NHL  and may help to characterize such neoplasias."
1267	"The (-938C>A) polymorphism in the promoter region of the BCL-2 gene was recently  associated with inferior time to treatment and overall survival in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients displaying the -938A/A genotype and may thus  serve as an unfavorable genetic marker in CLL. Furthermore, the -938A/A genotype  was associated with increased expression of Bcl-2. To investigate this further, we analyzed the -938 genotypes of the BCL-2 gene in 268 CLL patients and correlated data with treatment status, overall survival and known prognostic factors, for example, Binet stage, immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) mutational status and CD38 expression. In contrast to the recent report, the current cohort of CLL patients showed no differences either in time to treatment  or overall survival in relation to usage of a particular genotype. In addition, no correlation was evident between the (-938C>A) genotypes and IGHV mutational status, Binet stage or CD38. Furthermore, the polymorphism did not appear to affect the Bcl-2 expression at the RNA level. Taken together, our data do not support the use of the (-938C>A) BCL-2 polymorphism as a prognostic marker in CLL and argue against its postulated role in modulating Bcl-2 levels."
1268	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of small noncoding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression by inducing degradation or translational inhibition of target mRNAs. There are more than 500 miRNA genes reported in the human genome, constituting one of the largest classes of regulatory genes. Increasing experimental evidence supports the idea of aberrant miRNA expression in cancer pathogenesis. We analyzed the pattern of miRNA expression in chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (CLL) cells and our results showed a global reduction in miRNA expression levels in CLL cells associated to a consistent underexpression of miR-181a, let-7a and miR-30d. We observed overexpression of miR-155 and a set of  five miRNAs that are differentially expressed between patients with different clinical outcomes. Five novel miRNA candidates cloned from leukemic cells are reported. Surprisingly, predicted mRNA targets for these novel miRNA revealed a high proportion of targets located in a small region of chromosome 1, which is frequently altered in human cancer. Additionally, several targets were shared by  at least two of miRNA candidates. Predicted targets included several genes recently described as tumor suppressors. These data could afford new avenues for  exploring innovative pathways in CLL biology and therapy."
1269	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) consists of at least two major prognostic subgroups, characterized by different cellular and molecular markers. This observation sparked studies on the function and clinical importance of these markers. In order to address their function adequately, an efficient and reliable method for gene transfer is needed. In this study, we compared efficiency and utility of different gene transfer techniques in CLL. Lenti-, retro- and adenoviral transduction did not yield appreciable numbers of marker gene enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) positive CLL cells, despite various prestimulation protocols. Efficient transgene expression was observed after nucleofection of CLL cells with plasmid DNA, at the expense of low survival rates. After optimization, electroporation of in vitro transcribed mRNA yielded up to 90% EGFP+CLL cells without affecting survival. Transgene expression remained detectable for at least 2 weeks after electroporation. Furthermore, we could demonstrate overexpression of ZAP70 and of a ZAP70-EGFP fusion protein after electroporation with ZAP70 or ZAP70-EGFP mRNA. We conclude that mRNA electroporation is a novel and straightforward method for highly efficient gene transfer in CLL. The application of this technique should facilitate functional studies on CLL cells, as well as clinical research."
1271	"On September 19, 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration granted regular approval and expanded labeling for alemtuzumab (Campath); Genzyme Corporation, Cambridge, MA) as single-agent treatment for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (B-CLL). Alemtuzumab was initially approved in 2001 under accelerated approval regulations. Conversion to regular approval was based on a single study submitted to verify clinical benefit. Efficacy and safety were demonstrated in an open-label, international, multicenter, randomized trial of 297 patients with previously untreated, Rai stage I-IV B-CLL experiencing progression of their disease. Patients were randomized to either alemtuzumab, 30 mg i.v. over 2 hours  three times per week on alternate days for a maximum of 12 weeks, or chlorambucil, 40 mg/m(2) orally every 28 days for a maximum of 12 months. The progression-free survival time, the primary study endpoint, was significantly longer in the alemtuzumab arm than in the chlorambucil arm. Both the overall and  complete response rates were also significantly higher in the alemtuzumab arm. No differences in survival were observed. There were no new safety signals identified in patients receiving alemtuzumab. The most serious, and sometimes fatal, toxicities of alemtuzumab are cytopenias, infusion reactions, and infections."
1272	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody indicated for treatment  of fludarabine-refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Severe lymphopenia is one of the most profound hematologic effects of alemtuzumab, often predisposing patients to infectious complications such as herpes simplex virus, cytomegalovirus, and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. Opportunistic infections secondary to mycobacterial sources have been documented less frequently. We describe the case of a 46-year-old man who developed a 40-mm lymph node mass 4 months after completing alemtuzumab therapy. After a thorough evaluation, he began treatment for tuberculosis with a four-drug combination regimen. The patient's final biopsy report indicated the presence of Mycobacterium avium complex. All clinical signs of the infection resolved with no recurrence. To our  knowledge, this is the first published report of a patient who developed M. avium complex after alemtuzumab therapy. Consideration of primary prophylaxis against M. avium complex infections in aggressively treated patients with advanced B-CLL  or other clinical indications may be warranted if future reports of such atypical infections emerge."
1273	"BACKGROUND: Since 1979, we have been studying subtotal splenectomy. This procedure was used in over 200 patients to treat splenic trauma, portal hypertension, myeloid metaplasia due to myelofibrosis, Gaucher disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, retarded growth, and sexual development associated with splenomegaly, and disorders of the pancreatic tail. On the basis of our clinic experience with laparoscopic splenectomy with and without splenic autotransplantation, open subtotal splenectomy, and after a training period with  laparoscopic conservative splenic operations on animals, this communication presents laparoscopic subtotal splenectomy as a new treatment of severe pain due  to ischemia of the spleen. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two patients with severe splenic pain due to ischemia provoked by vascular obstruction of the spleen were successfully treated by laparoscopic subtotal splenectomy, with preservation of the upper splenic pole supplied only by the gastrosplenic vessels. RESULTS: This procedure was safely conducted with minor bleeding and no technical difficulties or complications. The postoperative follow-up of 5 and 21 months has been uneventful and the pain disappeared since the first postoperative day. CONCLUSIONS: It is feasible and safe to perform subtotal splenectomy by laparoscopy. This procedure seems to be a good treatment for pain due to splenic  ischemia."
1274	"Periventricular leukomalacia is the predominant injury in the preterm infant leading to cerebral palsy. Oxygen exposure may be an additional cause of brain injury in these infants. In this study, we investigated pathways of maturation-dependent oligodendrocyte (OL) death induced by hyperoxia in vitro and in vivo. Developing and mature OLs were subjected to 80% oxygen (0-24 h). Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay was used to assess cell viability. Furthermore, 3-, 6-, and 10-d-old rat pups were subjected to 80% oxygen (24 h), and their brains were  processed for myelin basic protein staining. Significant cell death was detected  after 6-24 h incubation in 80% oxygen in pre-OLs (O4+,O1-), but not in mature OLs (MBP+). Cell death was executed by a caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway and could be blocked by the pan-caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk. Overexpression of BCL2 (Homo sapiens B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 2) significantly reduced apoptosis. Accumulation of superoxide and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were detected after 2 h of oxygen exposure. Lipoxygenase inhibitors 2,3,5-trimethyl-6-(12-hydroxy-5-10-dodecadiynyl-1,4-benzoquinone and N-benzyl-N-hydroxy-5-phenylpentamide fully protected the cells from oxidative injury. Overexpression of superoxide dismutase (SOD1) dramatically increased injury to pre-OLs but not to mature OLs. We extended these studies by testing the effects of hyperoxia on neonatal white matter. Postnatal day 3 (P3) and P6 rats,  but not P10 pups, showed bilateral reduction in MBP (myelin basic protein) expression with 24 h exposure to 80% oxygen. Hyperoxia causes oxidative stress and triggers maturation-dependent apoptosis in pre-OLs, which involves the generation of ROS and caspase activation, and leads to white matter injury in the neonatal rat brain. These observations may be relevant to white matter injury observed in premature infants."
1276	"High-level BCL2 expression is seen in most patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in the absence of BCL2 chromosomal translocation. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP; -938C>A) within an inhibitory region of the BCL2 promoter has been reported to regulate BCL2 protein expression and to be associated with adverse prognostic features in CLL. We screened 276 patients with CLL for this SNP and 100 patients by quantitative Western blot for BCL2 expression. In contrast to the previous report, we found no association with BCL2 protein levels or with any clinical or laboratory parameters. BCL2 protein levels remained constant in 10 individual patients at different time points. A total of  19 patients with the lowest levels of BCL2 protein expression were biologically and clinically heterogeneous; 5 patients exhibited high-level BCL2 RNA expression and 4 were fludarabine resistant. BCL2 protein levels in CLL reflect a complex interplay of transcriptional and posttranscriptional controls, but do not appear  to be associated with the -938C>A promoter SNP."
1277	"CD49d/alpha4-integrin is variably expressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We evaluated its relevance as independent prognosticator for overall survival and time to treatment (TTT) in a series of 303 (232 for TTT) CLLs, in comparison with other biologic or clinical prognosticators (CD38, ZAP-70, immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IGHV) gene status, cytogenetic abnormalities, soluble CD23, beta2-microglobulin, Rai staging). Flow cytometric detection of CD49d was stable and reproducible, and the chosen cut-off (30% CLL cells) easily discriminated CD49dlow from CD49dhigh cases. CD49d, whose expression was strongly associated with that of CD38 (P<.001) and ZAP-70 (P<.001), or with IGHV mutations (P<.001), was independent prognosticator for overall survival along with IGHV mutational status (CD49d hazard ratio, HRCD49d=3.52, P=.02; HRIGHV=6.53, P<.001) or, if this parameter was omitted, with ZAP-70 (HRCD49d=3.72, P=.002; HRZAP-70=3.32, P=.009). CD49d was also a prognosticator for TTT (HR=1.74, P=.007) and refined the impact of all the other  factors. Notably, a CD49dhigh phenotype, although not changing the outcome of good prognosis (ZAP-70low, mutated IGHV) CLL, was necessary to correctly prognosticate the shorter TTT of ZAP-70high (HR=3.12; P=.023) or unmutated IGHV (HR=2.95; P=.002) cases. These findings support the introduction of CD49d detection in routine prognostic assessment of CLL patients, and suggest both pathogenetic and therapeutic implications for CD49d expression in CLL."
1278	"The clonal expansion of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells requires the interaction with the microenvironment and is under the control of several cytokines. Here, we investigated the effect of IL-15 and IL-21, which are closely related to IL-2 and share the usage of the common gamma chain and of its JAK3-associated pathway. We found remarkable differences in the signal transduction pathways activated by these cytokines, which determined different responses in CLL cells. IL-15 caused cell proliferation and prevented apoptosis induced by surface IgM cross-linking. These effects were more evident in cells stimulated via surface CD40, which exhibited increased cell expression of IL-15Ralpha chain and, in some of the cases, also of IL-2Rbeta. IL-21 failed to induce CLL cell proliferation and instead promoted apoptosis. Following cell exposure to IL-15, phosphorylation of STAT5 was predominantly observed, whereas,  following stimulation with IL-21, there was predominant STAT1 and STAT3 activation. Moreover, IL-15 but not IL-21 caused an increased phosphorylation of  Shc and ERK1/2. Pharmacological inhibition of JAK3 or of MEK, which phosphorylates ERK1/2, efficiently blocked IL-15-induced CLL cell proliferation and the antiapoptotic effect of this cytokine. The knowledge of the signaling pathways regulating CLL cell survival and proliferation may provide new molecular targets for therapeutic intervention."
1279	"Sustained engagement of the B-cell receptor (BCR) increases apoptosis resistance  in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells, whereas transient stimulation usually has an opposite effect. The antiapoptotic BCR signal has been associated  with prolonged activation of the PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK pathways, which are key regulators of survival and proliferation in various cell types. To further define the relative contribution of the Akt and ERK kinases in regulating CLL B-cell survival, we introduced constitutively active mutants of Akt and MEK in primary CLL B cells and evaluated changes in the expression of relevant pro- and antiapoptotic proteins. Sustained activation of Akt resulted in increased leukemic cell viability and increased expression of the antiapoptotic proteins Mcl-1, Bcl-xL, and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), thus largely recapitulating the effects of sustained BCR stimulation. Constitutively active MEK2 also up-regulated XIAP, but did not show a significant impact on leukemic cell survival. Down-regulation of Mcl-1 by siRNA treatment induced rapid and potent apoptosis in CLL B cells and blocked the antiapoptotic effect of sustained BCR stimulation, whereas down-regulation of Bcl-xL and XIAP did not affect leukemic cell viability. These data demonstrate that Akt and Mcl-1 are major components of a survival pathway that can be activated in CLL B cells by antigen  stimulation."
1280	"Structural chromosomal aberrations have been described in various types of human  leukemia. The micronucleus technique provides a measure of both chromosome breakage and chromosome loss. The present study investigated micronucleus (MN) frequency in mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes from 20 newly diagnosed and untreated leukemia patients: 4 with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), 10 with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and 6 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The mean MN frequency for untreated patients was 3.65 +/- 1.47 in ALL, 3.55 +/- 1.24 in AML, 3.03 +/- 1.05 in CLL. No differences in MN frequency were seen between leukemia types ALL, AML, and CLL (P = 0.503). The mean basal MN frequency for all patients, regardless of leukemia type, was 3.41 +/- 1.19, which was significantly higher (P = 0.001) than that of 20 age-matched control subjects, 1.87 +/- 0.75. Although no significant relationship was found between age and MN frequency in patients with leukemia (r = 0.050; P = 0.835), the MN frequency in the lymphocytes of healthy control increased regularly and significantly with age (r = 0.531; P = 0.016). These data indicate that the increased baseline MN frequency in lymphocytes of untreated patients with leukemia may reflect genomic instability or deficiency of DNA repair capacity. MN enhancement in this disease may thus be a consequence of the disease process."
1281	"The clinical efficacy of the CD20-specific chimeric monoclonal antibody rituximab is significantly hampered by intrinsic or acquired resistance to therapy. Rituximab activates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity/complement-dependent cytotoxicity-dependent lysis but also induces apoptosis by cross-linking of its target antigen CD20. Recent reports indicate that this apoptotic activity of rituximab can be synergized by cotreatment with Fas agonists. Here, we report on  a strategy designed to exploit and optimize the synergy between rituximab and Fas signaling by genetically fusing a rituximab-derived antibody fragment to soluble  Fas ligand (sFasL). The resultant fusion protein, designated scFvRit:sFasL, potently induced CD20-restricted apoptosis in a panel of malignant B-cell lines (10 of 11) and primary patient-derived malignant B cells (two of two non-Hodgkin  lymphoma and five of six B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia). ScFvRit:sFasL efficiently activated CD20 and Fas apoptotic signaling, resulting in a far superior proapoptotic activity compared with cotreatment with rituximab and Fas agonists. ScFvRit:sFasL lacked activity toward normal human B cells and also lacked systemic toxicity in nude mice with no elevation of aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels or liver caspase-3 activity. In conclusion, scFvRit:sFasL efficiently activates CD20 and Fas-apoptotic signaling and may be useful for the elimination of malignant B cells."
1282	"PURPOSE: To date, efforts to study CD52-targeted therapies, such as alemtuzumab,  have been limited due to the lack of stable CD52 expressing transformed B-cell lines and animal models. We describe generation and utilization of cell lines that stably express CD52 both in vitro and in vivo. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: By limiting dilution, we have established several clones of  Raji-Burkitt's lymphoma cell line that express surface CD52. Immunophenotype and  cytogenetic characterization of these clones was done. In vivo usefulness of the  CD52(high) cell line to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of CD52-directed antibody was investigated using a SCID mouse xenograft model. RESULTS: Stable expression of CD52 was confirmed in cells cultured in vitro up to 52 weeks of continuous growth. The functional integrity of the expressed CD52 molecule was shown using alemtuzumab, which induced cytotoxic effects in vitro in the CD52(high) but not the CD52(low) clone. Compared with control antibody, alemtuzumab treatment in CD52(high) inoculated mice resulted in significantly increased median survival. Comparable levels of CD52-targeted direct cytotoxicity, complement-dependent cytotoxicity, and antibody-dependent cytotoxicity and anti-CD52 immunoliposome-mediated delivery of synthetic oligodeoxyribo nucleotides in CD52(high) clone and primary B-chronic lymphocytic  leukemia cells implicated potential in vivo application of this model for evaluation of CD52-targeted antibody and immunoliposomes encapsulating therapeutic agents. CONCLUSIONS: These results show the in vitro utility of the cloned Raji cell lines that stably express high levels CD52. The disseminated leukemia-lymphoma mouse model described herein using these stable cell lines can serve as an excellent system for in vivo therapeutic and mechanistic evaluation of existing and novel antibodies directed against CD52 molecule."
1283	"PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to characterize interactions between the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib and the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors (HDACI) romidepsin or belinostat in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Primary and cultured (JVM-3 and MEC-2) CLL cells were exposed to agents alone or in combination, after which cell death was determined  by 7-aminoactinomycin D staining/flow cytometry. Acetylation of target proteins,  activation of caspase cascades, and expression of apoptosis-regulatory proteins were monitored by Western blot analysis. Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity was determined by luciferase reporter assay. Cells were transiently transfected with wild-type and acetylation site-mutated (inactive) RelA(p65) (e.g., K221R, K310R, or K281/221/310R) and assessed for HDACI sensitivity. RESULTS: Combined exposure to very low concentrations of romidepsin or belinostat (i.e., low nanomolar and submicromolar, respectively) in combination with low nanomolar concentrations of bortezomib synergistically induced cell death in primary and cultured CLL cells. These events were likely associated with prevention of HDACI-mediated RelA acetylation and NF-kappaB activation by bortezomib, down-regulation of antiapoptotic proteins (i.e., Bcl-xL, Mcl-1, and XIAP), as well as up-regulation of the proapoptotic protein Bim, resulting in activation of caspase cascade. Finally, CLL cells transfected with inactive RelA  displayed a significant increase in HDACI lethality. CONCLUSIONS: Coadministration of the clinically relevant HDACIs romidepsin or belinostat with bortezomib synergistically induces cell death in CLL cells, likely through mechanisms involving, among other factors, NF-kappaB inactivation  and perturbation in the expression of proapoptotic and antiapoptotic proteins. A  strategy combining HDAC with proteasome inhibition warrants further attention in  CLL."
1284	"PURPOSE: Gene expression profiling identified receptor tyrosine kinase ROR1, an embryonic protein involved in organogenesis, as a signature gene in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). To assess the suitability of ROR1 as a cell surface antigen for targeted therapy of B-CLL, we carried out a comprehensive analysis of ROR1 protein expression. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells, sera, and other adult tissues from B-CLL patients and healthy donors were analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively for ROR1 protein expression by flow cytometry, cell surface biotinylation, Western blotting, and ELISA. RESULTS: ROR1 protein is selectively expressed on the surface of B-CLL cells, whereas normal B cells, other normal blood cells, and normal adult tissues do not express cell surface ROR1. Moreover, cell surface expression of ROR1 is uniform and constitutive, i.e., independent of anatomic niches, independent of biological and clinical heterogeneity of B-CLL, independent of B-cell activation, and found  at similar levels in all B-CLL samples tested. The antibody binding capacity of B-CLL cell surface ROR1 was determined to be in the range of 10(3) to 10(4) molecules per cell. A portion of B-CLL cell surface ROR1 was actively internalized upon antibody binding. Soluble ROR1 protein was detectable in sera of <25% of B-CLL patients and a similar fraction of healthy donors at concentrations below 200 ng/mL. CONCLUSIONS: The restricted, uniform, and constitutive cell surface expression of ROR1 protein in B-CLL provides a strong incentive for the development of targeted therapeutics such as monoclonal antibodies."
1285	"CD200 is an immunosuppressive molecule overexpressed in multiple hematologic malignancies such as B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, multiple myeloma, and acute myeloid leukemia. We previously demonstrated that up-regulation of CD200 on tumor cells suppresses antitumor immune responses and that antagonistic anti-human CD200 mAbs enabled human PBMC-mediated tumor growth inhibition in xenograft NOD/SCID human (hu)-mouse models. Ab variants with effector function (IgG1 constant region (G1)) or without effector function (IgG2/G4 fusion constant region (G2G4)) exhibited high antitumor activity in a human tumor xenograft model in which CD200 was expressed. In this report, we seek to select the best candidate to move forward into the clinic and begin to decipher the mechanisms of tumor cell killing by comparing anti-CD200-G1 vs anti-CD200-G2G4 in two related animal models. In a CD200-expressing xenograft NOD/SCID hu-mouse model where CD200 ligand/receptor interactions are already established before initiating treatment, we find that anti-CD200-G1 is a less effective Ab compared with anti-CD200-G2G4. Separately, in a model that evaluates the effect of the Abs on the immune cell component of the xenograft NOD/SCID hu-mouse model distinctly from the effects of binding to CD200 on tumor cells, we find that the administration of anti-CD200-G1 Abs completely abolished human PBMC-mediated tumor growth inhibition. Along with supporting in vitro studies, our data indicate that anti-CD200-G1 Abs efficiently mediate Ab-dependent cellular cytotoxicity of activated T cells, critical cells involved in immune-mediated killing. These studies suggest important implications regarding the selection of  the constant region in anti-CD200 immunotherapy of cancer patients."
1286	"PURPOSE: Richter's syndrome (RS) and fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are associated with poor clinical outcomes. We conducted a phase I-II trial of oxaliplatin, fludarabine, cytarabine, and rituximab (OFAR) in these diseases. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The OFAR regimen consisted of increasing doses of oxaliplatin (17.5, 20, or 25 mg/m(2)/d) on days 1 to 4 (phase I), fludarabine 30  mg/m(2) on days 2 to 3, cytarabine 1 g/m(2) on days 2 to 3, rituximab 375 mg/m(2) on day 3 of cycle 1 and day 1 of subsequent cycles, and pegfilgrastim 6 mg on day 6, every 4 weeks for a maximum of six courses. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as any nonhematologic, treatment-related toxicity >/= grade 3. RESULTS: Fifty patients were treated (20 patients had RS, and 30 had CLL). The highest tolerated oxaliplatin dose was 25 mg/m(2), which was the highest dose tested. DLT was not observed. Pharmacodynamic analyses demonstrated enhanced leukemia cell killing by oxaliplatin in the presence of fludarabine and cytarabine. The overall response rates were 50% in RS and 33% in fludarabine-refractory CLL. The overall response rate in 14 patients with age >/= 70 years was 50%. Responses were achieved in seven (35%) of 20 patients with 17p  deletion, two (29%) of seven patients with 11q deletion, all four patients with trisomy 12, and two (40%) of five patients with 13q deletion. The median response duration was 10 months. Toxicities were mainly hematologic; prolonged myelosuppression was not observed. CONCLUSION: The OFAR regimen is highly active in RS and has activity in fludarabine-refractory patients with CLL. This regimen warrants further investigation in the treatment of these disorders."
1287	"It is well known that translocation between chromosomes 2 and 8, t(2;8)(p12;q24), has a strong association with Burkitt's lymphoma. It has rarely been seen in indolent lymphoproliferative disorders. In this study, we report for the first time on 2 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with t(2;8). They were diagnosed as having typical CLL (case 1) and CLL/prolymphocytic leukemia (case 2), respectively, based on morphology and immunophenotyping. Karyotypic analysis  of the bone marrow cells using the R-banding technique revealed a karyotype of 47,XY, t(2;8)(p12;q24), +4,[17]/46, XY[9] in case 1 and a karyotype of 45,X, t(Y;7)(q12;q21),t(2;8)(p12; q24),del(12)(p12),-17[5]/46,XY[9] in case 2. T(2;8) translocation was confirmed by whole chromosome painting. Rearrangement of the MYC gene and loss of one p53 allele were detected by FISH only in case 2. Both cases had negative ZAP70 and CD38 expressions; however, only case 1 showed good response to therapy. We consider that MYC rearrangement, loss of one p53 allele as well as other factors, such as more prolymphocytes in the blood and bone marrow and complex chromosome abnormalities, also had adverse effects on the poorer prognosis of case 2."
1288	"BACKGROUND: Generalized pruritus can often be the primary manifestation of systemic disease. OBJECTIVE: To determine how frequently generalized pruritus had a systemic etiology in an outpatient population seen in a dermatology department and whether any identifiable patient characteristics meant a systemic explanation of generalized pruritus was more likely. METHODS: A prospective controlled study of 55 patients with generalized pruritus  and 41 healthy age- and sex-matched control subjects. Clinical data were collected from patients and laboratory parameters investigated in both patients and healthy control subjects to determine the frequency of systemic disease in each group. RESULTS: Of 55 patients, 12 had a systemic cause of pruritus. Pruritus was the initial symptom of systemic disease in eight of these patients. The underlying diseases included hypothyroidism, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hepatitis C, hepatitis B, diabetes mellitus, lung cancer, uremia, and iron deficiency anemia.  Of these, iron deficiency anemia was the most common cause. Compared with the control group, mean serum hemoglobin, iron, and cyanocobalamin (vitamin B(12)) levels in patients with generalized pruritus were lower. No other patient characteristics were statistically associated with systemic causes of pruritus. CONCLUSION: Generalized pruritus was the initial symptom of a systemic disease in 8 of 55 patients presenting to a dermatology outpatient clinic with this complaint. A number of underlying diseases were identified, of which the most common was iron deficiency anemia."
1289	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody primarily used in refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Although bronchospasm and infectious pneumonia are  not uncommon adverse effects of therapy, alemtuzumab-associated interstitial pneumonitis causing acute respiratory failure has not yet been described. Here the authors describe a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who developed acute respiratory failure following 3 weeks of alemtuzumab salvage therapy. A microbial or neoplastic cause of the lung disease could not be found. Findings of computed tomography of the chest and wedge biopsy were consistent with interstitial pneumonitis. The patient subsequently died of progressive respiratory failure after 2 months of hospitalization."
1291	"Allogeneic conventional hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) can be curative  treatment for lymphoid malignancies, but it has been characterized by high nonrelapse mortality (NRM). Here, we compared outcomes among patients with lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia given either nonmyeloablative (n = 152)  or myeloablative (n = 68) conditioning. Outcomes were stratified by the HCT-specific comorbidity index. Patients in the nonmyeloablative group were older, had more previous treatment and more comorbidities, more frequently had unrelated donors, and more often had malignancy in remission compared with patients in the myeloablative group. Patients with indolent versus aggressive malignancies were equally distributed among both cohorts. After HCT, patients without comorbidities both in the nonmyeloablative and myeloablative cohorts had  comparable NRM (P = .74), overall survival (P = .75), and progression-free survival (P = .40). No significant differences were observed (P = .91, P = .89, and P = .40, respectively) after adjustment for pretransplantation variables. Patients with comorbidities experienced lower NRM (P = .009) and better survival  (P = .04) after nonmyeloablative conditioning. These differences became more significant (P < .001 and .007, respectively) after adjustment for other variables. Further, nonmyeloablative patients with comorbidities had favorable adjusted progression-free survival (P = .01). Patients without comorbidities could be enrolled in prospective randomized studies comparing different conditioning intensities. Younger patients with comorbidities might benefit from  reduced conditioning intensity."
1292	"GCET1 (germinal center B cell-expressed transcript-1) gene codes for a serpin expressed in germinal center (GC) B cells. Following the observation that follicular lymphoma cases exhibit an increased level of Gcet1 expression, compared with follicular hyperplasia, we have characterized Gcet1 protein expression in human tissues, cell lines, and a large series of lymphomas. To this end, we have performed immunohistochemical and Western blot analyses using a newly generated monoclonal antibody that is reactive in paraffin-embedded tissues. Our results demonstrate that Gcet1 is expressed exclusively by neoplasms hypothetically to be arrested at the GC stage of differentiation, including follicular lymphoma, nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma, and a subset of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, T-cell/histiocyte rich B-cell lymphoma,  and Burkitt lymphoma. Within these tumors, Gcet-1 protein expression is restricted to a subset of GC B cells, establishing the existence of a distinct heterogeneity among normal and neoplastic GC B cells. None of the other B-cell lymphomas, that is, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, splenic marginal zone lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma, was Gcet1(+), which underlines the potential utility of Gcet1 expression in lymphoma diagnosis. The results of RNA and protein expression should prompt further investigation into the role of Gcet1 in regulating B-cell survival."
1293	"FCRL1 (Fc receptor-like 1) is a cell-surface membrane protein belonging to FCRL family and is preferentially expressed on B cells. To evaluate FcRL1 as an immunotherapy target for B-cell malignancies, we prepared anti-FCRL1 mAbs without cross-reactivity to other FCRL family proteins and analyzed FCRL1 protein expression on malignant cells from patients and on B-cell lines. Frequent FCRL1 expression was observed by flow cytometry on 12 B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) cell lines and many patient samples: 12 of 14 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 7 of 7 follicular lymphoma (FL), 13 of 17 hairy cell leukemia (HCL), and 2 of 3 mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Two recombinant immunotoxins, E3(Fv)-PE38 and E9(Fv)-PE38, were constructed. Both immunotoxins bound to FCRL1-positive cells with similar affinities (3.4 and 3.2 nM) and were cytotoxic  to cell lines, but E9(Fv)-PE38 was 4- to 20-fold more cytotoxic than E3(Fv)-PE38. The concentrations that inhibited response by 50% (IC(50)s) of E9(Fv)-PE38 on 11  different FCRL1-positive cell lines ranged from 1.0 ng/mL to 90 ng/mL and correlated with the FCRL1 expression levels. Our results suggest that anti-FCRL1  immunotoxin E9(Fv)-PE38 exhibits remarkably specific cytotoxicity and merits further evaluation for the treatment of FCRL1-positive malignancies, including CLL, HCL, FL, MCL, and other B-NHL."
1294	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) progression is frequently accompanied by clinical lymphadenopathy, and the CCL21 chemokine may play an important role in this process. Indeed, CCR7 (the CCL21 receptor), as well as matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), are overexpressed in infiltrating B-CLL cells. We have studied whether MMP-9 is regulated by CCL21 and participates in CCL21-dependent migration. CCL21 significantly increased B-CLL MMP-9 production,  measured by gelatin zymography. This was inhibited by blocking extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2) activity or by cell transfection with CCR7-siRNA. Accordingly, CCL21/CCR7 interaction activated the ERK1/2/c-Fos pathway and increased MMP-9 mRNA. CCL21-driven B-CLL cell migration through Matrigel or human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) was blocked by anti-CCR7 antibodies, CCR7-siRNA transfection, or the ERK1/2 inhibitor U0126, as  well as by anti-MMP-9 antibodies or tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP-1). These results strongly suggest that MMP-9 is involved in B-CLL nodal infiltration and expand the roles of MMP-9 and CCR7 in B-CLL progression. Both molecules could thus constitute therapeutic targets for this disease."
1295	"FTY720 is an immunosuppressant developed to prevent organ transplant rejection. Recent studies indicate an additional role for FTY720 in inducing cell apoptosis. We demonstrate here that FTY720 mediates toxic effects in cell lines representing different B-cell malignancies and primary B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In contrast to previous reports in T-cell lines, FTY720-induced toxicity in the Raji cell line and primary CLL B cells is independent of activation of caspases or poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase processing.  Further, pancaspase inhibitor Z-VAD-fmk failed to rescue these cells from apoptosis mediated by FTY720. FTY720 induced down-regulation of Mcl-1 but not Bcl-2 in CLL B cells. Overexpression of Bcl-2 failed to protect transformed B cells from FTY720-induced apoptosis, suggesting a Bcl-2-independent mechanism. Interestingly, FTY720 induced protein phosphatase 2a (PP2a) activation and downstream dephosphorylation of ERK1/2, whereas okadaic acid at concentrations that inhibited the FTY720-induced PP2a activation also resulted in inhibition of  FTY720-mediated apoptosis and restoration of baseline ERK1/2 phosphorylation in primary CLL cells, indicating a role for PP2a activation in FTY720-induced cytotoxicity. Further, FTY720 treatment resulted in significant prolonged survival in a xenograft severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mouse model of disseminated B-cell lymphoma/leukemia. These results provide the first evidence for the potential use of FTY720 as a therapeutic agent in a variety of B-cell malignancies, including CLL."
1296	"BACKGROUND: Rituximab in sequential combination with fludarabine (Flu) allowed patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) to achieve higher remission rates and longer response duration. Based on their recent experience in indolent non-Hodgkin lymphomas, in this study, the authors attempted to demonstrate whether consolidation/maintenance therapy with rituximab could prolong the response duration in this patient population. METHODS: This Phase II study was based on a consolidation/maintenance therapy with rituximab for patients in complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR)  who were positive for minimal residual disease (MRD), as determined by flow cytometry. Seventy-five symptomatic, untreated patients with B-CLL received 6 monthly cycles of Flu (25 mg/m(2) for 5 days) followed by 4 weekly doses of rituximab (375 mg/m(2)). Then, 28 patients who were positive for MRD were consolidated with 4 monthly cycles of rituximab (375 mg/m(2)) followed by 12 monthly low doses of rituximab (150 mg/m(2)). RESULTS: Based on National Cancer Institute criteria, 61 of 75 patients (81%) achieved a CR, 10 of 75 patients (13%) had a PR, and 4 of 75 patients (5%) had either no response or disease progression. MRD-positive patients in CR or PR who  received consolidation therapy (n = 28 patients) had a significantly longer response duration (87% vs 32% at 5 years; P = .001) compared with a subset of patients who did not receive consolidation therapy (n = 18 patients). All patients experienced a long progression-free survival from the end of induction treatment (73% at 5 years). It was noteworthy that, within the subset of ZAP-70-positive patients, MRD-positive, consolidated patients (n = 12 patients) had a significantly longer response duration (69% vs 0% at 2.6 years; P = .007) compared with MRD-positive, unconsolidated patients (n = 11 patients). CONCLUSIONS: The addition of a consolidation and maintenance therapy with rituximab prolonged response duration significantly in patients with MRD-positive B-CLL."
1298	"BACKGROUND: The clinical course, disease progression, and survival of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) have been correlated with immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region mutation status. The biologic parameters 70-kDa zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) and CD38 expression are easier and faster surrogate markers for mutational status. OBJECTIVE: To assess retrospectively ZAP-70 expression in B-CLL cells using flow  cytometry and examine its relationship with CD38 expression and the median time from diagnosis to initial therapy. METHODS: Ninety-four unselected patients who had their follow-up in the outpatient clinic from 2004 to 2005 were reviewed for immunophenotyping ZAP-70 and CD38 expression. Direct immunolabeling with clone 2E3.2, isotype IgG2a, enabled easy quantification of ZAP-70 by flow cytometry in association with CD38  expression; in addition, the mean fluorescence intensity ratio (MFIR) of CD19+CD5+ B-CLL cells compared to an isotype control monoclonal antibody was determined. RESULTS: ZAP-70 expression levels in B-CLL cells varied widely (0.3-99%). The median time to therapy was significantly shorter for the 54 patients with 20% or  more ZAP-70+ cells (30 months) than for the 40 patients with less than 20% ZAP-70+ cells (median time to treatment not reached). The optimal MFIR for classifying patients as ZAP-70+ was 2. Thirty-two patients had a threshold of ZAP-70+CD38+ greater than 30%, with a median time from diagnosis to treatment of  19 months. Regardless of CD38 expression level, CD38 and ZAP-70 expressions were  significantly associated. The median interval from diagnosis to initial therapy was 16.2 months for ZAP-70+CD38+ patients, 60 months for ZAP-70+CD38- or ZAP-70-CD38+ patients, and had not yet been reached for ZAP-70-CD38- patients. CONCLUSION: The association of ZAP-70+CD19+CD5+ B-CLL cells and percentage of CD38+CD19+CD5+ B-CLL cells evaluated by flow cytometry provide reliable methods that could be introduced into a routine diagnostic B-CLL panel to predict outcome."
1300	"Although fludarabine-based regimens and monoclonal antibodies are able to induce  high overall and complete remission rates in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a major impact on overall survival or even potential cure by these treatments is still lacking. Increased sensitivity and specificity of flow  cytometry and polymerase chain reaction techniques enable us to detect few CLL cells in peripheral blood and bone morrow. This has brought significant advancement into the evaluation of response quality of CLL treatment. The eradication of minimal residual disease (MRD) below measurable levels seems to be critical to overcome recurring clonal expansion resulting in disease progression  or relapse. Several studies suggest that achieving MRD negativity in patients with CLL provokes prolonged response duration and survival. Thus, elimination of  MRD should become a surrogate end point of modern clinical trials and a goal in CLL. This review summarizes the current status of and future strategies for MRD eradication in CLL."
1301	"New treatment approaches have substantially improved response rates in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Accurate assessment of effective combination chemoimmunotherapy requires more sensitive measures of response, and a variety of techniques to measure minimal residual disease (MRD) have been developed. Because many studies demonstrate that MRD eradication is associated with prolonged treatment-free survival, detection of MRD is becoming a standard component of clinical trials. Quantitative approaches using polymerase chain reaction or multiparameter flow cytometry are preferable because they allow comparison of efficacy between different studies. In most clinical settings, the levels of chronic lymphocytic leukemia always increase from the first detection of MRD; the exception is allogeneic transplantation, in which there may be stable MRD levels  or delayed MRD eradication. MRD analysis in the peripheral blood also may be used during therapy to predict eventual response and potentially to guide therapy to achieve the optimal outcome."
1302	"There is much interest in the potential use of Cox-2 selective inhibitors in combination with other cancer therapeutics. Malignancies of hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic origin often have increased expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2), a key modulator of inflammation. For example, hematological malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, Hodgkin's lymphoma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and multiple myeloma often highly express Cox-2, which correlates with poor patient prognosis. Expression of Cox-2 enhances survival and proliferation of malignant cells, while negatively influencing anti-tumor immunity. Hematological malignancies expressing elevated levels of Cox-2 potentially avoid immune responses by producing factors that enhance angiogenesis and metastasis. Cellular immune responses regulated by natural killer cells, cytotoxic T lymphocytes, and T regulatory cells are also influenced by Cox-2 expression. Therefore, Cox-2 selective inhibitors have promising therapeutic potential in patients suffering from certain hematological malignancies."
1303	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an abundant class of approximately 22-nucleotide-noncoding RNAs, which play important regulatory roles in animal and plant development: they are involved in gene expression at the posttranscriptional level by degrading or  blocking translation of messenger RNA (mRNA) targets. miRNAs can induce RNA cleavage and chromatin modifications, and are implicated in apoptotic pathways and regulation of cell growth and proliferation. It is becoming clear that miRNAs play important roles in the regulation of gene expression during development, and our knowledge of the expression levels or function of miRNAs in normal and neoplastic cells is increasing. Accumulating experimental evidence suggests that  different miRNAs are deregulated in primary human tumors and that many human miRNAs are located at genomic regions linked to cancer. miRNAs may be important regulators of mammalian hematopoiesis. They are involved in a variety of hematological malignancies, including acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and primary effusion lymphoma. Here, we provide background on the biogenesis and function of miRNAs and discuss potential therapeutic applications of miRNA-based technology in hematological malignancies."
1304	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) results in an accumulation of mature  CD5(+)/CD23(+) B cells due to an uncharacterized defect in apoptotic cell death.  B-CLL is not characterized by a unique recurrent genomic alteration but rather by genomic instability giving rise frequently to several chromosomal aberrations. Besides we reported that approximately 15% of B-CLL patients present malignant B-cells resistant to irradiation-induced apoptosis, contrary to approximately 85% of patients and normal human lymphocytes. Telomere length shortening is observed  in radioresistant B-CLL cells. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and multicolour FISH, we tested whether specific chromosomal aberrations might be associated with the radioresistance of a subset of B-CLL cells and whether they are correlated with telomere shortening. In a cohort of 30 B-CLL patients, all of the radioresistant B-CLL cell samples exhibited homozygous or heterozygous deletion of 13q14.3 in contrast to 52% of the radiosensitive samples. In addition to the 13q14.3 deletion, ten out of the 11 radioresistant B-cell samples had another clonal genomic alteration such as trisomy 12, deletion 17p13.1, mutation  of the p53 gene or translocations in contrast to only three out of 19 radiosensitive samples. Telomere fusions and non-reciprocal translocations, hallmarks of telomere dysfunction, are not increased in radioresistant B-CLL cells. These findings suggest (i) that the 13q14.3 deletion accompanied by another chromosomal aberration is associated with radioresistance of B-CLL cells  and (ii) that telomere shortening is not causative of increased clonal chromosomal aberrations in radioresistant B-CLL cells."
1305	"BACKGROUND: B-cell expression of ZAP-70, normally expressed in T and NK cells, correlates with poor prognosis in B-CLL. Poor discrimination between ZAP-70 positive and negative cells hampers routine application of flow cytometry. We examined the usefulness of FACS Lysing Solution. METHODS: ZAP-70 expression in 65 healthy volunteers was measured by four-color flow cytometry, comparing FACS Lysing Solution for fixation and permeabilization  with the Fix & Perm kit. Separation between ZAP-70 positive T cells and negative  B cells was based on a ratio of median ZAP-70 staining of T cells to B cells. In  25 B-CLL patients, ZAP-70 expression was estimated using the lower limit of the fluorescence range corresponding with 98% of ZAP-70 positive T cells as threshold marker as well as a ratio of B-CLL cell to internal T-cell median ZAP-70 staining. RESULTS: Use of FACS Lysing Solution resulted in approximately fourfold increased separation between ZAP-70 positive T cells and negative B cells, when compared with the Fix & Perm kit. In B-CLL samples, ZAP-70 negative and positive B-cell expression could be clearly discerned. CONCLUSIONS: FACS Lysing Solution is a simple procedure that markedly improves discrimination between ZAP-70 positive and negative cells."
1306	"INTRODUCTION: The simultaneous presentation of chronic B-cell lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) is extremely rare. CASE REPORT: We describe a patient with B-CLL and Sézary syndrome (SS), an erythrodermic and leukemic variant of CTCL. Despite treatment, the SS progressed  to involve internal organs and eventual death of the patient from sepsis. This is the first reported case of SS coexisting with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in which an anti-V beta 13.6 antibody was used to serially track changes in circulating neoplastic T cells vis-à-vis neoplastic B cells and to detect neoplastic T cells in ascitic fluid near the end of the patient's life. DISCUSSION: We speculate that the coexistence of B-CLL and CTCL is the result of  an initiating genetic or epigenetic defect at the level of the common lymphoid stem cell that predisposes both B-cell and T-cell lineages to additional oncogenic changes at a more advanced stage of differentiation."
1307	"Nucleotides are increasingly recognized as nonredundant extracellular signals for chemotaxis, cell growth, and cytokine release. Effects of extracellular nucleotides are mediated by P2 receptors, among which the P2X(7) subtype is attracting increasing attention for its involvement in apoptosis, cell growth, and cytokine release. Recent studies showed that P2X(7) is overexpressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and breast and prostate cancer. The aim of the present study was to better understand the clinical significance of P2X(7) receptor expression in normal and cancer human thyroid tissues. P2X(7) receptor message and protein expression and functional activity were tested in two cell lines (FB1 and FB2) established from either anaplastic or papillary primary thyroid cancer and in several histological samples of human papillary cancer. We  show here that human thyroid papillary carcinoma, whether of the classical or follicular variant, expresses the P2X(7) receptor (P2X(7)R) to a much higher level than normal thyroid tissue. The P2X(7)R was similarly up-regulated in FB1 and FB2 cell lines. In contrast to normal thyroid cells, both cell lines responded to extracellular nucleotide stimulation with a large increase in intracellular Ca(2+) and secretion of IL-6. Ca(2+) increase was attenuated and release of IL-6 was fully blocked by P2X(7)R inhibitors. Finally, the thyroid carcinoma cell lines had at least a 3-fold higher intracellular ATP concentration and maintained at least a 3-fold higher extracellular ATP level, compared with control cells. These data suggest that an enhanced P2X(7)R function might be a feature of human thyroid cancer."
1308	"The expression of HLA-G was reported in certain malignancies and its role in escaping from immunosurveillance in cancers was proposed since HLA-G is a nonconventional HLA class I molecule that protects fetus from immunorecognition during pregnancy. Recent studies proposed HLA-G as novel prognostic marker for patients with B-CLL. HLA-G was showed to bear even better prognostic information  compared to Zeta-chain associated protein of 70kDa (ZAP-70) and CD38 although some other authors did not find HLA-G expression in CLL. Therefore in this study  we characterized the expression of HLA-G on both RNA and protein level. In most of 20 B-CLL patients we were able to detect signal from HLA-G using flow cytometry analysis. The expression of HLA-G was confirmed on messenger level by real-time RT-PCR experiments. No correlation between HLA-G expression and expression of well established prognostic factors such as ZAP-70 and CD38 was detected. These results confirm that HLA-G is expressed on CLL leukemic cells. Furthermore the expression of HLA-G on CLL cells suggests that this molecule might be involved in escaping of CLL cells from immunosurveillance."
1309	"Recently identified biological risk factors in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) include ZAP-70 and CD38 expression. The present study was conducted to clarify whether a combined analysis could improve predictive impact  of these two parameters. We examined the expression of ZAP-70 and CD38 by flow cytometry method in 217 newly diagnosed, consecutive, unselected and well characterized B-CLL patients in relation to laboratory parameters and clinical outcome. We confirmed that both ZAP-70 as well as CD38 were independent of prognostic factors. There was a significant correlation between the percentage of leukemic cells positive for ZAP-70 and the percentage of CD38+CD19+ cells (R=0.629; p=0.000001). Combined analysis of ZAP-70 and CD38 showed concordant results in 158/217 patients (72.8%), while in 59 patients the results were discordant (27.2%). A mean treatment free survival (TFS) was the longest in ZAP-70-CD38-patients (45.6 months, comparing to 13.6 months in ZAP-70+CD38+ group). Also a mean overall survival was the longest in ZAP-70-CD38- patients (224.7 months compared to 77.9 months in ZAP-70+CD38+ patients)."
1310	"The biologic mechanisms involved in the clinical progression from early stages of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are not well known. We investigated sequential samples from 16 untreated CLL patients obtained at diagnosis in early stage and after progression before treatment. One patient had  a p16 (INK4a) homozygous deletion at diagnosis and progression, and 3 patients acquired a p53 mutation, gains of 5q21-q23 and 11pter-p14, and a gain of chromosome 12 respectively, during the progression of the disease. Gene expression profile analysis showed a significant modulation of 58 genes with a particular downregulation of genes that are inhibitors of cell adhesion and motility."
1311	"BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to analyze whether in chronic lymphocytic leukemia the cytosolic release of histone H1.2, a new apoptogenic mechanism induced by DNA damage, was associated with the presence of genetic abnormalities  and with the response to treatment. DESIGN AND METHODS: Primary tumoral chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells from 25 patients were investigated for histone H1.2 cytosolic release after treatment with genotoxic (fludarabine, mitoxantrone, etoposide, or X-ray radiation) and non-genotoxic (dexamethasone) agents. Cases were analyzed for the presence of poor-risk genetic alterations, particularly deletions at 17p13 and 11q22. Histone H1.2 release was correlated with the presence of genetic abnormalities and with the best clinical response obtained with standard treatments. RESULTS: DNA-damaging agents induced H1.2 release in a p53-dependent manner which was confirmed by the lack of H1.2 release in p53-deleted cases. Non-DNA-damaging  agents induced release of H1.2 in both p53-deleted and non-deleted chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases. Moreover, nuclear H1.2 release was observed after genotoxic and non-genotoxic treatment independently of ATM function. From a clinical standpoint, the lack of histone H1.2 release correlated with resistance  to genotoxic treatment. CONCLUSIONS: In chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, histone H1.2 traffic was dependent on the p53-status after genotoxic treatment, but could also be induced  after treatments that acted independently of p53. By contrast, histone H1.2 release did not seem to be dependent on ATM function. Nuclear histone H1.2 release appears to be an important element in apoptosis induction in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, particularly in cases with abnormal p53 function resistant  to conventional treatment."
1313	"Chemoimmunotherapy has resulted in high complete remission rates and long remission duration in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) but relapses occur and curative strategies still need to be developed. A wealth of new agents with a wide variety of mechanisms of action against CLL are currently  in clinical trials. Twelve of these agents, which are in various stages of development varying from Phase I to Phase III trials, will be discussed. These include alkylating agents, monoclonal antibodies, immune modulators, cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors, BCL-2 family member inhibitors, protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors, SRC inhibitors, HSP-90 inhibitors and small modular immune pharmaceutics (SMIP)."
1314	"The majority of disease-specific complications in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), notably infection and autoimmunity, relate to the underlying alterations in immune function. Both cellular and humoral immunity are impaired with qualitative and quantitative defects in B cells, T cells, NK cells, neutrophils and the monocyte/macrophage lineage. Virtually all patients have reduced immunoglobulin levels, even in early stages, and this is associated with an increased frequency and severity of infection. Although prophylactic intravenous  immunoglobulin may be of clinical benefit in selected patients, it does not reduce mortality and is certainly not cost-effective. Autoimmune complications occur in up to a quarter of CLL patients and predominantly target blood cells. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AHA) is the most common manifestation; immune thrombocytopenia, pure red cell aplasia and autoimmune neutropenia are less common, while non-hematological autoimmunity is rare. The UK CLL4 trial is the largest prospective trial in CLL to examine the significance of both a positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT) and AHA. The study confirmed the usefulness of the DAT in predicting the development of AHA or not, demonstrated that AHA occurred more frequently in patients receiving treatment with chlorambucil or fludarabine  alone compared with the combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, and showed that a positive DAT and the development of AHA were poor prognostic markers. Management of CLL-associated autoimmunity rests on good supportive care  and the use of immunosuppressive therapies such as steroids and cyclosporine. Splenectomy remains useful, and monoclonal antibodies (rituximab and alemtuzumab) have given promising results."
1315	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has an extremely heterogeneous clinical course, with some patients requiring immediate therapy and others living without  need for treatment for decades. There has been considerable interest in the underlying molecular mechanisms of this heterogeneity to understand not only the  expected clinical course for individual patients but also the underlying pathogenesis of this disease. A number of clinical parameters have been identified that are predictive of the clinical course. More recently, a number of molecular biomarkers, most notably cytogenetics by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgVH) mutational status and expression of ZAP70, have been identified and verified as also providing prognostic information. The current challenge is to understand how we should use  this new information in clinical practice and whether we should alter treatment based upon the detection of "high-risk" features. Over the past decade there has  been considerable progress in development of more effective treatments for CLL, but current consensus is that treatment of CLL should be based upon the treatment of symptomatic disease. Specific treatment decisions based upon the detection of  "high-risk" features remains a question for clinical trials, which will address the potential value of early treatment for specific groups of patients and whether all patients with CLL should receive a standard treatment or whether treatment should be modified in different risk groups."
1317	"Splenic lymphoma with villous lymphocytes (SLVL) is a rare disorder that comprises less than 1% of lymphoid neoplasms. It is the leukemic counterpart of splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL) and is characterized by splenomegaly, often with no lymphadenopathy, moderate lymphocytosis and villous lymphocytes on peripheral blood smear. Here, we report a case of SLVL in a 56-year-old male with very high leukocyte counts, massive splenomegaly and relatively few leukemic cells with subtle villous projections on the surface. This disorder is often confused with other chronic lymphoproliferative disorders, especially chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and hairy cell leukemia and should be differentiated from them. We are reporting this case to highlight the diagnostic pitfalls associated with this disorder."
1319	"Survival of patients with B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) can be predicted by analysis of mutations in the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene (IGHV). Patients without mutations (unmutated [UM]) are at greater risk for  disease progression and death than patients with mutations (M). Despite this broad prognostic difference, there remains wide intragroup variation in the clinical outcome of UM patients, especially those with low/intermediate Rai risk  disease. We evaluated UM B-CLL patients with low/intermediate Rai risk to determine the relationship between IGHV, IGH diversity (IGHD), and IGH joining (IGHJ) gene usage and time to treatment (TTT). Irrespective of IGHV usage, UM patients whose B-CLL cells expressed the IGHD3-3 gene had a significantly shorter TTT than other UM B-CLL patients, and specifically, use of the IGHD3-3 gene in reading frame 2 (RF2) predicted shorter TTT. As expected, Rai risk was the best single prognostic factor for TTT; however, IGHD usage was also a significant variable for TTT. Therefore, both IGHD gene and IGHD RF usage have prognostic relevance in UM B-CLL patients with low/intermediate Rai risk disease. In addition, these data support the concept that antigen-driven selection of specific Ig receptors plays a role in the clinical course of B-CLL."
1320	"Non-follicular indolent subtypes of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), which include chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) and marginal zone  lymphomas (MZL), are a diverse group of disorders with different presenting features, behaviour patterns and treatment outcomes. Current knowledge of these subtypes is largely based on retrospective analyses. A precise diagnosis can be difficult to achieve, and specific diagnostic criteria are needed to more precisely define some of the rarer indolent tumors, such as nodal and splenic MZLs. Although some subtypes of NHL have a prolonged indolent course, with a good prognosis (e.g. SLL), others (e.g. nodal and splenic MZLs) can rapidly evolve into more aggressive subtypes. In asymptomatic patients, treatment may be deferred until the disease progresses and the patient becomes symptomatic. Universally accepted therapeutic guidelines do not exist, however, and carefully  designed, prospective clinical studies are needed to further assess optimal therapeutic approaches for these indolent NHLs."
1322	"In an effort to confirm previous reports we analyzed clinico-biological implications of increased serum levels of thrombopoietin (TPO) in a series of 71  previously untreated Binet stage A B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Serum levels of TPO did not correlate with peripheral blood lymphocytosis (p = 0.928), Rai substages (p = 0.516), platelet count (p = 0.572), hemoglobin level (p = 0.228), LDH (p = 0.144) and beta2-microglobulin (p = 0.520). The same applied when correlation with ZAP-70 (p = 0.562), CD38 (p = 0.258) or mutational status of IgV(H) (p = 0.0794) were sought. The risk of disease-progression according to known and putative prognostic parameters was also evaluated as time to first treatment (TFT). The univariate Cox proportional  hazard model demonstrated that the absence of IgV(H) mutational status (p = 0.0005) and ZAP-70-positivity (p = 0.02) were associated with a shorter TFT. In contrast, Kaplan-Meier estimates of TFT, plotted after setting as cut-off the median value for TPO (i.e., 46 pg/mL), failed to demonstrate any statistical difference between two groups (p = 0.342). Looking for cellular source of TPO we  investigated the presence of TPO at gene expression level in 60 B-CLL patients belonging to an independent series. Here we provide evidence for the presence of  a low TPO gene expression transcript in B-CLL cells. In conclusion, our results indicate that in early B-cell CLL circulating level of TPO does not provide a useful insight into the complex interrelationship of prognostic variables."
1323	"Little is known about the spectrum or frequency of comorbidities in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We investigated the prevalence and prognostic implications of comorbidities in patients with newly diagnosed CLL. Local/non-referred patients with CLL evaluated by a hematologist at Mayo Clinic within 1 year of diagnosis were eligible for this retrospective review. Of 1195 individuals evaluated for newly-diagnosed CLL between 1995 and 2006, 373 (31%) were local/non-referred. At diagnosis, 89% of these patients had one or more comorbidities, and 46% had at least one major comorbidity. Twenty-six percent of  patients failed to meet NCI working group guidelines to participate in a clinical trial. On multi-factor analysis, Rai risk category (1.39 per each risk category increase; p < 0.0001) and age (1.056 per year increase; p < 0.0001) were the only factors associated with overall survival. We conclude that, although common, comorbid conditions are less important than age and stage in predicting prognosis in newly diagnosed patients with CLL. Clinical trials evaluating treatments that  are designed to be tolerated by patients who do not meet traditional clinical trial eligibility criteria are needed."
1328	"An important biological alteration in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the dysregulation of immunoglobulin production, as a consequence of complex and yet incompletely understood interactions between plasma cells and the neoplastic B-cell clone. As a result, most patients develop severe hypogammaglobulinemia during the course of the disease. Fourteen patients were analyzed retrospectively for changes in globulins produced by antineoplastic treatments. During maximum response to fludarabine, chlorambucil, and overall rituximab, the mean levels of  globulins were 2.500, 2.752, and 3.018 g/dl. The mean increase in globulins during clinical response to individual treatments compared to pre-treatment values were 0.050 g/dl for fludarabine, 0.302 g/dl for chlorambucil, 0.267 g/dl for low-dose rituximab, and 0.346 g/dl for high-dose rituximab. Overall, treatment with rituximab produced an average increase in globulins at clinical response of 11.6%, which increased further to 17.3% at maximum clinical response. Serum globulins increased significantly compared with pre-treatment values at maximum clinical response to rituximab overall (P=0.001) and high-dose rituximab  (P=0.001), but no statistical significance occurred in the cases of fludarabine (P=0.5), chlorambucil/prednisone (P=0.14), and low-dose rituximab (P=0.07). Serum globulins levels correlate with disease status (complete responders versus partial responders and stable disease groups), but not with peripheral neoplastic load. Therefore, although rituximab is efficient in decreasing the tumor burden,  additional mechanisms may be involved in relieving suppressive effects on immunoglobulin-producing cells, which especially manifest at high doses of the agent. Use of high doses of rituximab in CLL can avoid T-cell dysfunction and neutropenia, and is associated with humoral immunorestorative effects."
1329	"Genomic aberrations have increasingly gained attention as prognostic markers in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) has improved the detection rate of genomic alterations in CLL from approximately 50% using conventional cytogenetics to greater than 80%. More recently, array comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) has gained popularity as  a clinical tool that can be applied to detect genomic gains and losses of prognostic importance in CLL. Array CGH and FISH are particularly useful in CLL because genomic gains and losses are key events with both biologic and prognostic significance, while balanced translocations have limited prognostic value. Although FISH has a higher technical sensitivity, it requires separate, targeted  hybridizations for the detection of alterations at genomic loci of interest. Array CGH, on the other hand, has the ability to provide a genome-wide survey of  genomic aberrations with a single hybridization reaction. Array CGH is expanding  the known genomic regions of importance in CLL and allows these regions to be evaluated in the context of a genome-wide perspective. Ongoing clinical trials are evaluating the use of genomic aberrations as tools for risk-stratifying patients for therapy, thus increasing the need for reliable and high-yield methods to detect these genomic changes. In this review, we consider the use of array CGH as a clinical tool for the identification of genomic alterations with prognostic significance in CLL, and suggest ways to integrate this test into the  clinical molecular diagnostic laboratory work flow."
1330	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is one of the most common leukemias in adults  in the developed world. Despite significant advances in the treatment of cancer,  CLL remains incurable. The main feature of the disease is the generation of circulating B-cells with prolonged survival caused by aberrant apoptosis. In this study, we observe that valproic acid (VPA), a well-established histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, mediates apoptosis in CLL cells ex vivo through caspase activation via both the extrinsic and the intrinsic apoptosis pathways, as indicated by the activation of the caspase proteins 8 and 9, and cleavage of the proapoptotic protein BID. The Bcl-2/Bax ratio was decreased as a consequence  of decreased bcl-2 mRNA levels in response to treatment with VPA. With the results presented in this study, we have identified the HDAC inhibitor VPA as restoring the apoptotic pathways in CLL cells and thus their ability to undergo apoptosis."
1331	"Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization was used to detect common deletions in B-CLL patients as well as trisomy 12 and aberrations of IgH gene complex at 14q32.33 where we evaluated not only translocation-like signal pattern but also deletions. 120 (82%) patients showed genetic changes - del(13)(q14) 95 (62%), deletion of ATM gene 22 (15%), deletion of p53 gene 25 (17%) and trisomy 12 was proved in 18 (12%) cases. IgH rearrangements were detected in 45 (31%), split of  the signals in 11 (8%), deletion of 3' segment flanking IgH gene in 5 (3%) and deletions of variable segment in 29 (20%) patients. Although deletions of 3' segment flanking IgH gene complex are supposed to have an adverse prognostic impact and the genetic background of variable segment deletions is believed to be most probably physiological, we assumed a detailed mapping of the 14q32.33 region will be needed to unravel these mysteries."
1332	"Great importance in the course of chronic B-cell lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has been ascribed to cytokines belonging to the superfamily of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF), including TRAIL (TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand) and its specific receptors: TRAIL receptor 1 (TRAIL-R1), TRAIL receptor 2 (TRAIL-R2), TRAIL receptor 3 (TRAIL-R3), TRAIL receptor 4 (TRAIL-R4) and osteoprotegerin (OPG). Both the molecule and the receptors may occur in membrane and soluble forms, except for OPG which has only a soluble form. The aim of the study was to  assess the levels of sTRAIL molecule and soluble TRAIL receptors - sTRAIL-R2 and  OPG in the serum of patients with B-CLL. The findings revealed reduced concentrations of sTRAIL both before and after treatment and elevated levels of sTRAIL-R2 and OPG in patients before treatment. After treatment with CC (2CdA/Cladrybin and Cyklofosfamid) and FC (Fludarabin and Cyklofosfamid) we observed an increase in sTRAIL and a decrease in sTRAIL-R2. OPG levels were found to increase after treatment with CHOP (Vincristini, Cyklofosfamid, Adriamycin and Prednisol) and they decreased after administration of Leukeran (Chlorambucyl) and CMC (2CdA/Cladrybin, Mitoxanton and Cyklofosfamid). The relationships between TRAIL and its natural regulators in the serum of BCLL patients prior to treatment may impair apoptosis of leukemic B cells. Changes in these relationships after treatment with CC and FC seem to promote enhancement of apoptosis in these cells."
1333	"Orbital involvement in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is highly unusual and most commonly involves hemorrhage or soft tissue infiltration in advanced disease. We report a case of rapid onset bilateral orbital muscle infiltration as the presenting feature of early stage CLL. In addition, we demonstrate clinico-pathological correlation with an identical chronic B-cell lymphocytic infiltrate in both orbit and bone marrow, with good response of the orbital disease to local radiotherapy."
1334	"Dendritic cell (DC) vaccination is an attractive approach to the treatment of patients with lymphoid tumors. To evaluate its feasibility, we have tested the functional properties of DC and T-lymphocytes in patients with treated and untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and follicular lymphoma (FL). Healthy volunteers were used both as controls and as a source of cells for allogeneic mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR). In these reactions, dendritic cells from both untreated and treated patients were comparable to dendritic cells from  healthy volunteers. In all the untreated patients studied, autologous dendritic cells promoted the survival and proliferation of both CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes (though the proliferation response was much better in the CD4 subset), whereas only 3 out of 5 treated patients were able to mount this response with CD4 lymphocytes and 4 out of 5 with CD8 lymphocytes. In 3 out of 5 untreated patients, pulsing of DCs with tetanus toxoid promoted a better CD4 response than  was achieved with unpulsed DCs, while none of 5 treated patients had an additional response after pulsing with tetanus toxoid. None of patients studied,  either treated or untreated, had a better CD8 response to pulsed DCs than to unpulsed ones. During CD4 lymphocyte proliferation, more CD4(+)CD25(hi) lymphocytes were generated in both treated and untreated patients than in healthy controls. Poor proliferation of cytotoxic cells and preferential proliferation of CD4(+)CD25(hi) T-regulatory cells in response to self and/or foreign antigens might be one of the mechanisms responsible for immunosuppression and impaired tumor surveillance in patients with lymphoid malignancies."
1335	"Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is characterized by the presence of a constitutively active Abl kinase, which is the product of a chimeric BCR-ABL gene, caused by the genetic translocation known as the Philadelphia chromosome. Imatinib, a selective inhibitor of the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase, has significantly improved the clinical outcome of patients with CML. However, subsets of patients  lose their response to treatment through the emergence of imatinib-resistant cells, and imatinib treatment is less durable for patients with late stage CML. Although alternative Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been developed to overcome drug resistance, a cocktail therapy of different kinase inhibitors and additional chemotherapeutics may be needed for complete remission of CML in some  cases. Chlorambucil has been used for treatment of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkin's and Hodgkin's disease. Here we report that a DNA sequence-specific pyrrole-imidazole polyamide-chlorambucil conjugate, 1R-Chl, causes growth arrest of cells harboring both unmutated BCR-ABL and three imatinib resistant strains. 1R-Chl also displays selective toxicities against activated lymphocytes and a high dose tolerance in a murine model."
1336	"The co-existence of breast carcinoma and lymphoma in the axillary lymph nodes, without a history of previous chemotherapy or radiotherapy is rarely described. We present a case of a 50-year-old female with right breast mass, proved by pathological examination to be invasive mucinous carcinoma. Examination of the axillary lymph nodes as axillary clearance showed concomitant small lymphocytic lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, with no evidence of metastatic mammary carcinoma deposits."
1338	"Several studies have suggested an increased risk of lymphoma among workers exposed to meat, without conclusive evidence. We conducted a multicenter case-control study during 1998-2004 in the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain, including 2,007 cases of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, 339 cases of Hodgkin lymphoma and 2,462 controls. We collected detailed information on occupational history and assessed exposure to meat in general and several types of meat via expert assessment of the questionnaires. The odds ratio (OR) of non-Hodgkin lymphoma for ever occupational exposure to meat was 1.18 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.95-1.46), that for exposure to beef meat was 1.22 (95% CI 0.90-1.67), and that for exposure to chicken meat was 1.19 (95% CI 0.91-1.55). The ORs were higher among workers with longer duration of exposure. An increased  risk among workers exposed to beef meat was mainly apparent for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (OR 1.49, 95%CI 0.96-2.33), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (OR 1.35, 95% CI 0.78-2.34) and multiple myeloma (OR 1.40, 95%CI 0.67-2.94). The latter 2 types were also associated with exposure to chicken meat (OR 1.55, 95% CI 1.01-2.37, and OR 2.05, 95%CI 1.14-3.69). Follicular lymphoma and T-cell lymphoma, as well as Hodgkin lymphoma did not show any increase in risk. Occupational exposure to meat does not appear to represent an important risk factor of lymphoma, although an increased risk of specific types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma cannot be excluded."
1344	"The somatic hypermutational (SHM) status of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IgVH) gene is a powerful prognostic factor in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, IgVH SHM analysis is not well-suited to routine use in the clinical diagnostic laboratory. ZAP70 expression is a potential surrogate for the absence of SHM. Given the current problems with the standardization of ZAP70 assessment by flow cytometry, we sought an alternative approach, using immunohistochemistry (IHC). The utility of IHC is largely restricted to tissues, precluding its routine application to most patients with CLL who are typically diagnosed based upon peripheral blood (PB) findings. Accordingly, we developed an IHC assay that can be performed on PB. Enriched PB mononuclear cells from 29 patients with CLL were analyzed for ZAP70 expression by IHC on paraffin-embedded cell blocks, using standard techniques. IgVH SHM analysis was performed on all cases, and clinical features recorded. Seventeen specimens (59%) were negative for ZAP70 expression and 12 (41%) were positive for ZAP70 expression. SHM was evident in 20 specimens (69%), and absent in 9 (31%). Seventy-six percent of the specimens (22/29) displayed "concordant" ZAP70 and SHM results, in that 15 (52%) were SHM-positive/ZAP70 negative, whereas 7 (24%) were  SHM-negative/ZAP70 positive. ZAP70 expression in this small cohort correlated with poor clinical outcome. Importantly, IHC analysis of ZAP70 in PB is a simple, reliable, robust assay that may have a valuable role in the routine clinical laboratory assessment of patients with CLL."
1345	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a B-cell malignancy endowed with a number of features that recall autoimmune disorders, including the CD5 expression and the development of autoimmune manifestations restricted to self antigens expressed by hematopoietic cells. Several evidences strongly support the possibility that an antigenic stimulation through the B-cell receptor (BCR) is involved in the selection and possibly also the expansion of the malignant clone. Though all evidences suggest specific Ag recognition and possibly stimulation at  different time-points, the nature of the Ag(s) is still unknown. It appears likely that CLL cells derive from a pool of auto/polyreactive CD5(+) B cells. Hence CLL appears to be a B-cell malignancy triggered or facilitated in its development and evolution by an auto-Ag. The crucial issues have become to what extent this deleterious binding capacity is central to the natural history of the disease and how it relates to the malignant transformation of the cell."
1346	"Several features of the B-cell receptor (BCR) have emerged as major prognostic factors in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In particular, the absence of somatic mutations in the immunoglobulin variable region genes and expression of the protein tyrosine kinase ZAP-70 are strongly associated with an aggressive clinical course, and both features have been correlated with a greater capacity of the BCR to transmit antigen-induced signals. Additionally, differences in BCR  structure and reactivity indicate that CLL B-cells from the two prognostic subsets may recognize different types of antigens. Antigens that are not rapidly  internalized induce sustained BCR signaling that can promote the survival of the  leukemic B-cells. The BCR signal is initially transmitted by the Syk kinase and modulated by ZAP-70, which shows inefficient or absent tyrosine kinase activation in B-cells. However, both ZAP-70 expression and sustained BCR engagement have been associated with prolonged activation of the Akt and ERK kinases, which is required for the induction of several antiapoptotic proteins, including Mcl-1, Bcl-xL and XIAP. Therefore, targeting components along the BCR signaling pathway  may be a promising strategy for the treatment of CLL."
1347	"Our interest in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) derives primarily from the exploitation of human diseases as strategic models for defining the in vivo biological roles of CD38. Using this model, we showed that CD38 triggers robust proliferation/survival signals modulated through the interactions with the CD31 ligand expressed by nurse-like cells and by the stromal/endothelial components. By analyzing a cohort of 56 patients with clinically and molecularly characterized CLL, we show that (1) patients with CD38(+)/ZAP-70(+) are characterized by enhanced migration toward Stromal derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha)/CXCL12; (2) CD38 ligation leads to tyrosine phosphorylation of ZAP-70, showing that these markers are functionally linked; (3) ZAP-70 represents a limiting factor for the CD38 pathway in the CLL context, as shown by studying CD38-mediated signal transduction in 26 molecularly characterized patients; and (4) the CLL subgroup of patients defined on the basis of migratory potential is marked by a specific genetic signature, with a significant number of differentially expressed genes being involved in cell-cell interactions and movement. Altogether, the results of this work provide biological evidence for why the combined analysis of CD38 and ZAP-70 expression as determined in several  clinical trials results in more dependable identification of patients with CLL who have aggressive disease."
1348	"The pathogenesis of B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders in general and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in particular appears to involve dysfunctional regulation of humoral and cellular immunity with the subsequent development of genetic aberrations in B cells. In theory, either component may arise de novo or  may be influenced by environmental exposures including infectious agents, antigens, genotoxic chemicals, or radiation. As an intermediary within the exposure-disease continuum, monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis may be a helpful biomarker for teasing out these various contributions to risk. This article introduces a series of papers that resulted from an International Workshop held in May 2007 entitled 'Monoclonal B-cell Lymphocytosis and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: Environmental and Genetic Risk Factors'. Research efforts, such as those described in this issue, should lead to improved interventions, more predictive biomarkers, more effective treatments, and a greater appreciation of how the immune system functions over the entire human lifespan."
1349	"BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab (Campath-1H), a monoclonal antibody that targets the CD52 antigen, has been approved for the treatment of fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. However, the profound immunosuppression caused by alemtuzumab has been associated with infectious complications. METHODS: The authors report on the incidence and risk factors for development of  symptomatic cytomegalovirus reactivation in 113 patients with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders who received alemtuzumab-based therapy. Kaplan-Meier methods were applied to generate survival curves, and the log-rank test was used to assess the difference between groups; in addition, univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate the hazard ratio of death including 95% confidence intervals. RESULTS: Cytomegalovirus reactivation was diagnosed in 25 patients (22%), and most of those patients responded to antiviral therapy. Nine additional patients had asymptomatic cytomegalovirus viremia. CONCLUSIONS: With appropriate therapy, most patients achieved clearance of cytomegalovirus viremia. Low serum albumin was the only factor associated significantly with symptomatic cytomegalovirus reactivation."
1350	"OBJECTIVE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is generally considered to be non-radiogenic and is excluded from several programs that compensate workers for  illnesses resulting from occupational exposures. Questions about whether this exclusion is justified prompted a Congressional mandate to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to, further, examine the radiogenicity of CLL. This study revisits the question of CLL radiogenicity by examining epidemiologic evidence from occupationally and medically-exposed populations. METHODS: A systematic review of radiation-exposed cohorts was conducted to investigate the association between radiation and CLL. Exploratory power calculations for a pooled occupational study were performed to examine the feasibility of assessing CLL radiogenicity epidemiologically. RESULTS: There is a bias against reporting CLL results, because of the disease's  presumed non-radiogenicity. In medical cohort studies that provide risk estimates for CLL, risk is elevated, though non-significantly, in almost all studies with more than 15 years average follow-up. The results of occupational studies are less consistent. CONCLUSIONS: Studies with adequate follow-up time and power are needed to better  understand CLL radiogenicity. Power analyses show that a pooled study might detect risk on the order of radiation induced non-CLL leukemia, but is unlikely to detect smaller risks."
1351	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clonal disease characterized by proliferation and accumulation of small CD5-positive B cells. More than 50% of patients are asymptomatic at diagnosis and usually require no treatment. However, treatment is needed in the advanced and progressive disease. Chlorambucil with or without steroids has been the drug of choice for many years in previously untreated patients with CLL. The purine nucleoside analogs (PNAs), fludarabine (FA), cladribine (2-CdA-chlorodeoxyadenosine) and pentostatin (DCF, 2'-deoxycoformycin) also have been introduced for treatment of CLL. Significantly higher overall response (OR) and complete response (CR) and longer progression free survival (PFS) in patients with CLL treated with FA or 2-CdA have been confirmed in randomized, multicenter trials and more recently in meta-analysis. However, the median survival time did not differ between patients treated with PNA and alkylating agents. Combination therapies with PNAs and cyclophosphamide and especially with cyclophosphamide and rituximab are more active than monotherapy in terms of OR, CR and PFS. Several reports have shown significant activity of alemtuzumab in previously untreated and pretreated patients even when refractory to FA. Alemtuzumab also can be used in CLL as a preparative regimen before stem cell transplantation (SCT) and to eliminate minimal residual disease  (MRD). Recently, several new agents have shown promise in treating CLL, including new monoclonal antibodies, agents targeting bcl-2 family of proteins, antisense oligonucleotides and other agents. Moreover, autologous and allogenic hematopoietic cell transplantations are increasingly considered for treatment of  patients with CLL. In this review current therapeutic strategies in CLL are presented."
1352	"The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) displays an important cellular quality control function, by removing abnormal proteins from the cytosol, the nucleus and the endoplasmic reticulum. It controls the intracellular levels of short-lived and regulatory proteins, which are important for a variety of basic cellular processes. The pathway involves an enzymatic cascade through which multiple 76-amino acid ubiquitin monomers are covalently attached via a three-step process to the protein substrate, which is then degraded by the 26S proteasome complex. The proteasome is a cylindrical organelle that recognizes ubiquitinated proteins, degrades a large proportion of intracellular proteins, and recycles ubiquitin. Alterations in the proteasome proteolytic pathway have been thought to contribute to protein alterations associated with aging and, in fact, dysregulation of the UPS has been linked to several disease states including neurodegenerative diseases, malignancies, and inflammatory-related disorders. Strong preclinical data now exist supporting the use of reversible proteasome inhibitors to treat a  variety of disease states including cancer, autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, myocardial infarction, and ischemic brain injury. Bortezomib (Velcade) has recently been licensed for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma and is also undergoing further evaluation for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and a variety of solid tumors. MLN-519 is a small-molecular-weight lactacystin analogue and is being studied for the potential treatment of inflammatory disease and acute stroke. MLN-519 has demonstrated a neuroprotective effect in rat models of middle cerebral artery occlusion by reducing infarct volume, brain oedema and improving neurological outcome with a therapeutic window of up to 6-hrs. This review article focuses on the recent progress in the use of  proteasome inhibitors in nervous system diseases with emphasis on the bench-to-bedside research effort which provided the foundation for clinical development of proteasome inhibitors in the treatment of neurological disorders."
1353	"Infections are a primary cause of death in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Such individuals are particularly susceptible to infectious complications stemming from immune deficits associated with the primary disease process and with immunosuppression secondary to treatment. Although the recent availability of new treatment modalities and more aggressive therapies are improving outcomes for patients with CLL, standardized approaches are needed so that nurses can monitor for and manage infections. The aim is overall reduction in morbidity and mortality, as well as improvement in quality of life. The current pharmacologic therapies for CLL are alkylating agents, purine nucleoside  analogs, monoclonal antibodies, and combinations of those therapies, which may present their own unique risks for and different spectra of infectious events. This article provides an overview of the known risks for developing infections in CLL, as well as nursing guidelines for monitoring and managing patients with CLL."
1354	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common lymphoproliferative disorder in the western hemisphere, with an annual incidence of 3:100000. Commonly patients are asymptomatic but not rarely disease progression occurs in the setting of lymphadenopathy and extensive leukemic burden. Leptomeningeal involvement in patients with CLL is infrequent, with presenting symptoms of headache (23%), acute or chronic changes in mental status (28%), cranial nerve abnormalities (54%) including optic neuropathy (28%), weakness of lower extremities (23%) and cerebellar signs (18%). In this report, we discuss a CLL patient with leptomeningeal involvement, who presented with neurological symptoms as the first clinical sign, and a diagnosis of leptomeningeal was made based on CSF cytology and flow cytometry. Treatment consisted of radiation therapy and intrathecal chemotherapy with arabinoside-cytosine and systemic chemotherapy. On  the basis of this patient-report together with 37 other previously reported cases, the clinical characteristics together with treatment options and outcome of leptomeningeal involvement in CLL are reviewed. Our case together with data from the literature indicate that a timely diagnosis and intensive treatment of leptomeningeal disease of CLL may lead to longstanding and complete resolution of neurological symptoms."
1355	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common adult leukemia in the western world and is due to the accumulation of mature B lymphocytes in the peripheral blood, bone marrow and secondary lymphoid organs. The leukemic cells show a distinct phenotype, which is essential to reach the correct diagnosis. Despite the phenotypic homogeneity, the clinical outcome may be significantly different. Some patients have an indolent leukemia, with long survival while others experience an aggressive disease, with early and frequent need of treatment. At present, no chemotherapeutic regimens can be considered curative and all patients will die with (or because of) their disease. In recent years, research on CLL has led to important discoveries that help defining patients' prognosis at the moment of diagnosis. These prognostic factors, which are derived from the biological features of the leukemic lymphocytes, are now rapidly moved into the clinical arena. They are used to stratify patients in selected clinical  trials to assess the value of early and more modern treatments, which are becoming available to hematologists."
1356	"Zeta-chain (TCR)-associated protein kinase 70 kDa (Zap-70) and CD38 expression may be of prognostic significance in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Previous studies indicate that Zap-70 and CD38 are usually positive in cases of CLL with unmutated immunoglobulin variable region genes (IgVH) and may be used to predict  IgVH mutation status and prognosis. Usually cases of CLL positive for Zap-70 or CD38 indicate a worse prognosis. In the present investigation, 47 cases of CLL were evaluated for CD38 expression, and 17 cases were evaluated for both Zap-70 and CD38 expression. Of the 47 cases, 19 (40.4%) positively expressed CD38. Of the 17 cases evaluated for Zap-70, 11 (64.7%) were positive for Zap-70, while only 6 (35.3%) were positive for CD38 expression; the remaining cases were negative for CD38. The results of this study show that Zap-70 expression may be a better indicator of the mutational status of IgVH and prognosis of CLL than CD38  expression. In addition, CD38 negativity does not necessarily indicate that IgVH  mutation has occurred. These data point to the need for a more extensive study to evaluate the significance of Zap-70 and CD38 expression as indicators of IgVH mutation status and prognosis of CLL patients."
1357	"Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) has been used as a treatment modality in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Allogeneic HSCT is  the only therapy at present that has curative potential in patients with CLL. Allogeneic HSCT using standard myeloablative regimens has been generally associated with high treatment mortality rates and autologous HSCT with high relapse rates. Over the last decade the use of reduced intensity conditioning (non-myeloablative) regimens have reduced the treatment-related mortality after allogeneic-HSCT without affecting the graft-versus-leukemia effectiveness. In addition, the development of molecular and biologic markers has identified high-risk CLL patients that may benefit from earlier treatment with HSCT. This review summarizes the use of existing prognostic markers in CLL and their use in  HSCT, and the advances, indications and clinical outcomes of both autologous HSCT and allogeneic HSCT."
1358	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The potential anticancer agent 1-(2-chlorophenyl-N-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinolinecarboxamide (PK11195), a translocator protein (18KDa) (TSPO) ligand, facilitates the induction of cell death by a variety of cytotoxic and chemotherapeutic agents. Primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells overexpress TSPO. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of PK11195 on CLL cells. Table 1. Characteristics of the patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. DESIGN AND METHODS: Using cytometric analysis, we studied the cytotoxic effects of PK11195 on peripheral B and T lymphocytes from patients with CLL and from healthy donors. Western blot and cytometric analyses were used to study the mitochondrial effects of PK11195 on CLL cells. Moreover, we analyzed the cytotoxic effect of PK11195 in patients' cells with mutated p53 or ATM. RESULTS: PK11195 induces apoptosis and had additive effects with chemotherapeutic drugs in primary CLL cells. Other TSPO ligands such as RO 5-4864 and FGIN-1-27 also induce apoptosis in CLL cells. PK11195 induces mitochondrial depolarization  and cytochrome c release upstream of caspase activation, and dithiocyana-tostilbene-2,2- disulfonic acid (DIDS), a voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) inhibitor, inhibits PK11195-induced apoptosis, demonstrating a direct involvement of mitochondria. CLL cells and normal B cells are more sensitive than T cells to PK11195-induced apoptosis. Interestingly, PK11195 induced apoptosis in CLL cells irrespective of their p53 or ATM status. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that PK11195 alone or in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs might be a new therapeutic option for the treatment of CLL."
1361	"PURPOSE: The ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) gene is located on chromosome 11q and loss of this region is common in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Our aim was to determine if CLL tumors with a chromosome 11q deletion might be divided into two subgroups based on the status of the remaining ATM allele. METHODS: The sequence of the residual ATM allele was determined in 72 CLLs with an 11q deletion. This was related to the cellular response to irradiation or cytotoxic drug exposure in vitro and clinical outcome. RESULTS: We show that the residual ATM allele is mutated in 36% of CLLs with an 11q deletion and that these leukemias demonstrate an impaired cellular response to irradiation or cytotoxic drug exposure in vitro. Inactivation of the second ATM allele was associated with a reduction in patient survival beyond that already dictated by the presence of an 11q deletion (P = .0283). Furthermore, we  demonstrate that ATM mutations may arise during the evolution of an 11q deleted subclone and are associated with its expansion. CONCLUSION: CLL with 11q deletion can be divided into two subgroups based on the  integrity of the residual ATM allele. Patients with complete loss of ATM function, due to biallelic ATM defects, have defective responses to cytotoxic chemotherapeutics in vitro and a poorer clinical outcome. ATM mutant subclones can develop during an individual's disease course and give rise to additional expansion of the 11q deleted subclone."
1364	"TCL-1 expression is variable in CLL, and no study has examined its association with treatment response. We measured TCL-1 protein in CLL cells from 51 patients  who then received pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab. TCL-1 expression  did not correlate with any pre-treatment characteristics. Lower TCL-1 levels were associated with higher probability of attaining flow cytometry-negative status post-treatment (52% versus 17%, p=0.046). Trends toward improved complete remission rate (49% versus 19%, p=0.064) and progression-free survival (medians:  33 versus 20 months, p=0.199) were noted with lower TCL-1 expression. These data  suggest TCL-1 expression may help predict treatment outcome in CLL patients following chemoimmunotherapy, and examination in larger studies is warranted."
1366	"Systemic mastocytosis may be primary or be associated with other hematological malignancies, most commonly myeloid neoplasms. In contrast, the association of systemic mastocytosis with lymphoid neoplasms is comparatively rare, and in the absence of appropriate clinical vigilance the diagnosis may be missed. We report  a case of aggressive systemic mastocytosis associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SM-CLL), placing particular emphasis on the investigational algorithm used in establishing this diagnosis, and discussing key clinical considerations in the initiation of therapy."
1367	"We identified 19 persons with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who received genetically identical twin blood cell or bone marrow transplants after high-dose conditioning. Ten are alive (eight disease-free) with a median follow-up of 89 months (range, 31-171 months); 5-year relapse rate was 50% (95% confidence interval (CI), 26-73%). Estimated 5-year survival and disease-free survival were 61% (95% CI, 37-82%) and 45% (95% CI, 23-68%). In two of four patients tested at 12 and 21 months by polymerase chain reaction no evidence of residual CLL was detected post-transplant. In one recipient who relapsed at 6 years, molecular studies showed a different CLL clone from that detected pretransplant. This clone was subsequently identified in the donor suggesting transfer of occult leukemia at the time of transplant. Genetically identical twin transplants can result in long-term disease-free survival and molecular remissions, these data suggest the potential for CLL control in the absence of allogeneic graft-versus-leukemia effect. The case of leukemia transfer indicates  the need for careful evaluation of donors prior to graft collection."
1371	"For decades, initial therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) consisted of  alkylators such as chlorambucil (Leukeran). The introduction of nucleoside analogs such as fludarabine and monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab (Rituxan) markedly changed the initial therapy of CLL, particularly in the United States. Fludarabine and combination regimens such as fludarabine/cyclophosphamide (FC) have achieved higher complete response (CR) rates and progression-free survival (PFS) than chlorambucil in previously untreated CLL, but long-term overall survival has not improved, due to concurrent improvement in salvage therapy of relapsed CLL patients. Upfront chemoimmunotherapy regimens such as fludarabine/rituximab (FR) and fludarabine/cyclophosphamide/rituximab (FCR) have  similarly improved CR rates and PFS in previously untreated CLL patients, but it  is unclear whether overall survival is improved. Advances in cytogenetic analysis and other biologic prognostic factors have greatly enhanced clinicians' ability to risk-stratify newly diagnosed CLL patients, and knowledge of such prognostic factors is necessary to properly interpret results of clinical treatment studies. The choice of initial therapy for an individual patient should depend upon the patient's age and medical condition, cytogenetic and other prognostic factors, and whether the goal of therapy is maximization of CR and PFS or palliation of symptoms with minimal toxicity."
1372	"Telomerase is a ribonucleoproteic enzyme associated with cellular immortality and malignancy. This enzyme, besides the catalytic subunit bearing reverse transctiptase activity, contains an RNA template complementary to TTAGGG telomeric repeats, thus permitting de novo synthesis of telomeric DNA onto chromosomal telomeric ends. Increased telomerase activity has been reported in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) by many authors. In order to investigate the telomerase activity in patients with CLL and its correlation to commonly used morphologic prognostic markers, 38 frozen blood lymphocyte samples from patients  with CLL and 47 age-matched controls were investigated for telomerase activity using the Telomerase PCR ELISA-plus kit from Roche. Trepanobiopsies from the same patients were analysed for the type of bone marrow infiltration as well. Analysis showed highly variable Relative Telomerase Activity (RTA) in B-CLL patients, ranging from comparable or even lower than the mean RTA of controls (in Binet A stage patients) to manifold increase in the majority of patients with advanced stage disease. The sex and age of the patients showed no influence on RTA in CLL  patients, in contrast to the control group, where the age influenced telomerase activity. We found a positive correlation between the RTA and disease stages (Binet), as well as between RTA and the type of BM infiltration."
1374	"Population-based cancer registries are widely used to provide key information about cancer incidence, survival, determinants of progression and clues about pathogenesis. To substantially expand the limited data on diagnostic accuracy and completeness for lymphoproliferative (LP) tumors in such databases, we conducted  a retrospective investigation of close to 1,000 cases diagnosed during 4 decades  in Sweden. We identified and reviewed medical records for 494 LP tumor patients reported to the population-based Swedish Cancer registry and 503 LP tumor patients identified from hospitals in Sweden among patients with LP tumors diagnosed during 1964-2003. The stratified samples were randomly selected from patients according to LP subtype, over 4 equal calendar periods, and among 6 selected hospitals of diverse size and from different geographic regions. We found 97.9% of reported LP tumor cases to fulfill current diagnostic criteria for having an LP tumor and observed 89.7% to have accurate LP tumor subtype. The overall completeness of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple myeloma cases in the Cancer registry was 95-99% but was lower for the more indolent tumors, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (87.9%) and Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (68.1%). We observed increased overall under-ascertainment for  patients diagnosed above age 80 (27%) and among individuals diagnosed before 1973 (12%). In conclusion the diagnostic accuracy and completeness for classically defined LP tumor entities in the Swedish Cancer registry is high. However, we found under-ascertainment of patients with indolent LP tumors, particularly among patients diagnosed at older ages, with early-stage disease and diagnosed in earlier years."
1375	"Major advances have occurred in understanding the biology, immunology, and modalities of treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in the last decade. B-cell CLL is the most common type of leukemia occurring in the US and Western nations. B-cell CLL is characterized by progressive defects in both cell-mediated and humoral-mediated immunity. B-lymphocyte defects, low gammaglobulin levels, and quantitative and functional T-cell defects have been documented in the setting of CLL. In concert with each other, they account for the increased susceptibility of the CLL patients to infectious agents. Moreover, several recent surveys have pointed out that CLL patients are at high risk of developing a large variety of second malignant neoplasms. Different therapeutic modalities used for  CLL may further exacerbate immunosuppression by depleting both T- and B-immune effectors, thus favoring various infectious diseases and perhaps altering the immune surveillance. The occurrence of 2 or more second cancers is increasingly reported in the context of CLL. Increased awareness of this association is warranted. Future development of surveillance strategies may be needed for a growing population of surviving patients who are at risk for second nonlymphoid neoplasms."
1376	"The authors investigated associations between ionizing radiation and leukemia mortality among workers at the Savannah River Site (South Carolina). A total of 18,883 workers hired between 1950 and 1986 were followed through 2002 to ascertain causes of death. Estimates of radiation doses from external sources and internal tritium uptakes were derived from dosimetry records through 1999. Radiation dose-mortality trends were evaluated for leukemia, leukemia excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and myeloid leukemia. A positive association was observed between leukemia mortality and radiation dose under a 3-year lag assumption (excess relative rate/10 mSv = 0.04, 90% confidence interval: -0.00, 0.12). The association was of larger magnitude for leukemia excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia (excess relative rate/10 mSv = 0.08, 90% confidence interval: 0.01, 0.20) and myeloid leukemia (excess relative rate/10 mSv = 0.12, 90% confidence interval: 0.02, 0.35). Compared with males, females had less complete dosimetry information; when analyses were restricted to males, the estimated association for each cause of death increased slightly in magnitude and goodness of fit. Exposures accrued 3-15 years prior were more strongly related to leukemia than exposures in the more distant past. This study provides evidence of positive associations between radiation dose and leukemia mortality among Savannah River Site workers. The temporal patterns of association appear consistent with those in studies of populations exposed at higher dose rates."
1377	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders display familial aggregation. To identify a susceptibility gene for CLL, we assembled families from the major European (ICLLC) and American (GEC) consortia to conduct a genome-wide linkage analysis of 101 new CLL pedigrees using a high-density single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array and combined the results  with data from our previously reported analysis of 105 families. Here, we report  on the combined analysis of the 206 families. Multipoint linkage analyses were undertaken using both nonparametric (model-free) and parametric (model-based) methods. After the removal of high linkage disequilibrium SNPs, we obtained a maximum nonparametric linkage (NPL) score of 3.02 (P = .001) on chromosome 2q21.2. The same genomic position also yielded the highest multipoint heterogeneity LOD (HLOD) score under a common recessive model of disease susceptibility (HLOD = 3.11; P = 7.7 x 10(-5)), which was significant at the genome-wide level. In addition, 2 other chromosomal positions, 6p22.1 (corresponding to the major histocompatibility locus) and 18q21.1, displayed HLOD scores higher than 2.1 (P < .002). None of the regions coincided with areas of common chromosomal abnormalities frequently observed in CLL. These findings provide direct evidence for Mendelian predisposition to CLL and evidence for the  location of disease loci."
1378	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells are thought to have diminished cell-cycling capacity, a view challenged by their phenotypic resemblance to activated human B lymphocytes. The present study addresses the cell-cycling status of CLL cells, focusing on those leukemic cells expressing CD38, a molecule involved in signaling and activation that also serves as a prognostic marker in this disease. CD38(+) and CD38(-) members of individual CLL clones were analyzed  for coexpression of molecules associated with cellular activation (CD27, CD62L, and CD69), cell-cycle entry (Ki-67), signaling (ZAP-70), and protection from apoptosis (telomerase and Bcl-2). Regardless of the size of the CD38(+) fraction  within a CLL clone, CD38(+) subclones are markedly enriched for expression of Ki-67, ZAP-70, human telomerase reverse transcriptase, and telomerase activity. Although the percentage of cells (approximately 2%) entering the cell cycle as defined by Ki-67 expression is small, the absolute number within a clone can be sizeable and is contained primarily within the CD38(+) fraction. Despite these activation/proliferation differences, both CD38(+) and CD38(-) fractions have similar telomere lengths, suggesting that CD38 expression is dynamic and transient. These findings may help explain why high percentages of CD38(+) cells  within clones are associated with poor clinical outcome."
1379	"CXCL13 is a homeostatic chemokine for lymphocyte homing and positioning within follicles of secondary lymphoid tissues, acting through its cognate receptor, CXCR5. Moreover, the CXCR5-CXCL13 axis plays a unique role in trafficking and homing of B1 cells. Here, we report that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells express high levels of functional CXCR5. CXCR5 expression levels were similar on CLL B cells and normal CD5+ B cells, and higher compared with normal CD5- B cells, follicular B-helper T cells (T(FH) cells), or neoplastic B cells from other B-cell neoplasias. Stimulation of CLL cells with CXCL13 induces actin  polymerization, CXCR5 endocytosis, chemotaxis, and prolonged activation of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinases. Anti-CXCR5 antibodies, pertussis toxin, and wortmannin inhibited chemotaxis to CXCL13, demonstrating the importance of Gi proteins and PI3 kinases for CXCR5 signaling. Moreover, CLL patients had significantly higher CXCL13 serum levels than volunteers, and CXCL13 levels correlated with beta2 microglobulin. We detected CXCL13 mRNA expression by nurselike cells, and high levels of CXCL13 protein in supernatants of CLL nurselike cell cultures. By immunohistochemistry, we detected CXCL13+ expression  by CD68+ macrophages in situ within CLL lymph nodes. These data suggest that CXCR5 plays a role in CLL cell positioning and cognate interactions between CLL and CXCL13-secreting CD68+ accessory cells in lymphoid tissues."
1380	"The p53 pathway plays a critical role in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The  association between the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) within the p53 gene (R72P) and its downstream target/regulators, BAX (G125A) and MDM2 (SNP309), and clinical parameters/prognostic markers was investigated in 83 CLL patients. Although the p53 R72P SNPs and MDM2 SNP309 did not associate with any of the parameters studied, the BAX G125A SNPs was associated with a more advanced Binet  stage at diagnosis, supporting a potential role for this variant in CLL disease progression. In reporter assays, however, the BAX 5' untranslated region G125A SNPs surprisingly caused a 1.8-fold increase in basal promoter activity and did not alter the ability of p53 to trans-activate the promoter. Further studies are  required to understand the role of SNPs in the p53 pathway in CLL."
1381	"Seliciclib (R-roscovitine) is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor in clinical development. It triggers apoptosis by inhibiting de novo transcription of the short-lived Mcl-1 protein, but it is unknown how this leads to Bax/Bak activation that is required for most forms of cell death. Here, we studied the effects of seliciclib in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), a malignancy with aberrant expression of apoptosis regulators. Although seliciclib-induced Mcl-1 degradation within 4 h, Bax/Bak activation occurred between 16 and 20 h. During this period, no transcriptional changes in apoptosis-related genes occurred. In untreated cells, prosurvival Mcl-1 was engaged by the proapoptotic proteins Noxa  and Bim. Upon drug treatment, Bim was quickly released. The contribution of Noxa  and Bim as a specific mediator of seliciclib-induced apoptosis was demonstrated via RNAi. Significantly, 16 h after seliciclib treatment, there was accumulation  of Bcl-2, Bim and Bax in the 'mitochondria-rich' insoluble fraction of the cell.  This suggests that after Mcl-1 degradation, the remaining apoptosis neutralizing  capacity of Bcl-2 is gradually overwhelmed, until Bax forms large multimeric pores in the mitochondria. These data demonstrate in primary leukemic cells hierarchical binding and crosstalk among Bcl-2 members, and suggest that their functional interdependence can be exploited therapeutically."
1382	"Lymphoma manifestations of the dura mater are extremely rare and have mostly been attributed to extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) type. We report a patient with an isolated meningeal tumor, identified as a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder with typical B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia immunophenotype. Because of the subclinical detection of trisomy 3 in the bone marrow by cytogenetic analysis and interphase fluorescence  in situ hybridization, CD5(+) MALT is an important differential diagnosis; however, to our knowledge, this entity has never been reported in the context of  dural lymphoma."
1383	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The synthetic flavone flavopiridol induces apoptosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in vitro; however, initial studies administering flavopiridol by a 24- to 72-h continuous intravenous infusion demonstrated no clinical activity. This review focuses on a novel dosing regimen  that has achieved significant clinical activity in relapsed, poor-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia. RECENT FINDINGS: Binding to human plasma proteins reduces free flavopiridol concentration and makes continuous intravenous infusion dosing ineffective. Pharmacokinetic modeling indicated that administering flavopiridol by a 30-min intravenous bolus followed by a 4-h continuous intravenous infusion would achieve serum concentrations necessary to induce in-vivo apoptosis. Our institution conducted a phase I study in relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Dose-limiting toxicity was acute tumor lysis syndrome resulting in fatal hyperkalemia. Careful  monitoring and aggressive intervention for hyperkalemia, including hemodialysis if necessary, allowed flavopiridol to be given safely. Nineteen of 42 patients responded (45%), including five of 12 patients (42%) with del(17p13) and 13 of 18 patients (72%) with del(11q22). SUMMARY: Flavopiridol, when administered by a 30-min intravenous bolus followed by a 4-h continuous intravenous infusion, is active in high-risk, refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Careful monitoring and aggressive intervention for  tumor lysis syndrome and hyperkalemia is necessary for safe drug administration.  Further studies to optimize the dose and schedule of administration, and to study this drug in other hematologic malignancies, are ongoing."
1385	"Recognition of cancer-specific antigens resulted in development of monoclonal antibodies as treatments for various neoplasms including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Two monoclonal antibodies, alemtuzumab and rituximab, have been extensively studied, as monotherapy or in combination, in patients with various clinical stages of CLL. Alemtuzumab, particularly when combined with fludarabine-based chemotherapy, sequentially or concomitantly, represents a promising therapeutic approach that results in improved efficacy by further reducing levels of residual disease in previously untreated or relapsed/refractory CLL. On the other hand, single-agent rituximab has limited activity by itself, even at very high doses, and seldom induces complete remissions. However, rituximab is feasible to combine with conventional chemotherapies such as purine analogs, alkylating chemotherapy and/or alemtuzumab. Newer monoclonal antibodies are already showing activity in relapsed/refractory CLL and will eventually be evaluated in combinations with conventional chemotherapy, or with already established antibodies. Modern definitions for assessment of responses such as minimal residual disease negativity (MRD negativity) are emerging and, consequently, development of assays capable of measuring such responses. MRD negativity should become the primary objective of clinical trials when evaluating treatment interventions in patients  with CLL. The future of monoclonal antibodies for treatment of CLL is bright."
1386	"Allogeneic transplantation of hematopoietic stem cells (allo-SCT) is being increasingly used to treat patients with lymphoma. We describe current results of allo-SCT in patients with Hodgkin's disease, indolent lymphoma including Waldenström's disease, and aggressive lymphoma including mantle cell lymphoma and mature T-cell lymphomas. A Graft-vs.-Lymphoma (GvL) effect is present in most entities as evidenced by the generally lower relapse rates after allo-SCT and the results of donor lymphocyte infusions. Slowly proliferating diseases like chronic lymphocytic leukemia, indolent lymphomas, and some T-cell lymphomas are particularly sensitive to the effects of allogeneic T-cells while patients with Hodgkin's disease and aggressive lymphoma may need vigorous debulking before allo-SCT to achieve optimal results. Although reduced-intensity conditioning has  lowered transplant-related mortality in most and improved survival in some sub-entities, relapse rates in patients with Hodgkin's disease and aggressive B-cell lymphomas, as well as in patients with heavily pre-treated and refractory  lymphoma, remain high and further improvement is undoubtedly needed. Large prospective studies in well-defined entities are necessary to further clarify the role of allo-SCT in lymphoma."
1387	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The redox-regulatory protein thioredoxin has several functions including transcriptional regulation, and antioxidant, cytokine, and chemokine activities. We have previously shown that extracellular thioredoxin protects B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells from apoptosis in vitro. In this study we were interested to determine whether thioredoxin is produced by  cells surrounding the CLL cells in the in vivo microenvironment and whether this  cell-derived thioredoxin has any leukemia growth-promoting effect in vitro. DESIGN AND METHODS: Lymph nodes from CLL patients (n=25) were analyzed for thioredoxin expression by immunohistology. Stromal cells purified from the lymph  nodes were analyzed for thioredoxin secretion at the single cell level using an ELIspot assay. The survival effect of the stromal-derived thioredoxin was tested  by co-culturing stromal- and CLL cells with and without Fab-fragments of an anti-thioredoxin antibody. RESULTS: The results indicated that the thioredoxin production correlated with the amount of proliferating cells and was mainly localized to the proliferation centers (pseudofollicles) in the CLL lymph nodes. The leukemia cells per se showed minimal thioredoxin levels; in contrast, stromal cells strongly expressed  thioredoxin. Purified primary stromal cells, which secreted extracellular thioredoxin, significantly protected the CLL cells from undergoing apoptosis in 72 h co-cultures. Interestingly, this anti-apoptotic effect could be abrogated by addition of Fab-fragments of an anti- thioredoxin antibody. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, we have shown that stromal cells in the lymph node microenvironment produce thioredoxin and that the thioredoxin production is localized to the proliferation centers of the CLL lymph nodes. In addition, thioredoxin produced by purified stromal cells rescued CLL cells from apoptosis in vitro."
1388	"The presented work summarizes data on estimated radiation risks among Chernobyl emergency workers of the Russian Federation. In 1991-1998, the excess relative risk (ERR) of death from malignant neoplasm was statistically significant: excess relative risk per 1 Gy (ERR/Gy)=2.11 with 95% confidence interval (CI) (1.31-2.92). In 1991-2001, the ERR estimation for incident solid cancers gives a  positive, but statistically insignificant value: ERR/Gy=0.34 with 95% CI (-0.39;  1.22). In 1986-2003, radiation risk for leukemia incidence was investigated. During the first 10 y after the Chernobyl accident (1986-1996) the relative risk  (RR) of leukemia (excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia) was statistically significant: RR=2.2 with 95% CI (1.3-3.8) for emergency workers with doses>0.15 Gy in comparison with less exposed workers. In 1986-2000, a statistically significant dose response was observed for incident cerebrovascular diseases: ERR/Gy=0.39, 95% CI=(0.004; 0.77). For doses>0.15 Gy a statistically significant  risk of cerebrovascular diseases as a function of mean daily dose was observed: ERR per 0.1 Gy d(-1)=2.17 with 95% CI=(0.64; 3.69). Different but overlapping cohorts of Russian emergency workers were used for these estimations. No adjustments were made for recognized risk factors for cerebrovascular diseases. All results should be considered as preliminary."
1389	"We report high expression of the maternally imprinted gene PEG10 in high-risk B-CLL defined by high LPL mRNA expression. Differential expression was initially  identified by microarray analysis and confirmed by real time PCR in 42 B-CLL patients. mRNA expression ranged from 0.3- to 375.4-fold compared to normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC). Expression levels in CD19+ B-CLL cells were 100-fold higher than in B-cells from healthy donors. PEG10 expression  levels in B-CLL patient samples remained stable over time even after chemotherapy. High PEG10 expression correlated with high LPL expression (p=0.001) and a positive Coombs' test (p=0.04). Interestingly, similar expression patterns  were observed for the neighbouring imprinted gene sarcoglycan-epsilon (SGCE). Monoallelic expression and maintained imprinting of PEG10 were found by allele- or methylation-specific PCR. The intensity of intracellular staining of PEG10 protein corresponded to mRNA levels as confirmed by immunofluorescence staining.  Short term knock-down of PEG10 in B-CLL cells and HepG2 cells was not associated  with changes in cell survival but resulted in a significant change in the expression of 80 genes. However, long term inhibition of PEG10 led to induction of apoptosis in B-CLL cells. Our data indicate (i) a prognostic value of PEG10 in B-CLL patients; (ii) specific deregulation of the imprinted locus at 7q21 in high-risk B-CLL; (iii) a potential functional and biological role of PEG10 protein expression. Altogether, PEG10 represents a novel marker in B-CLL."
1394	"The safety and efficacy of reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) for relapsed lymphomas remains unresolved. We conducted a prospective, multicentered, phase II trial. A total of 170 relapsed/refractory lymphomas received a RIC regimen followed by SCT from sibling donors. The primary study end point was non-relapse mortality (NRM). Histologies were non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) (indolent (LG-NHL), n=63; aggressive (HG-NHL), n=61; mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), n=14) and Hodgkin's disease (HD, n=32). Median follow-up was 33 months (range, 12-82). The results show that frequencies were as follows: cumulative NRM at 3 years, 14%; acute and  chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) 35 and 52%, respectively; 3-year overall survival (OS), 69% for LG-NHL, 69% for HG-NHL, 45% for MCL and 32% for HD (P=0.058); and 3-year relapse incidence, 29, 31, 35 and 81%, respectively (P<0.001). Relapse risk differed significantly at 3 years between follicular lymphoma (FL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (14 versus 46%, P=0.04). Molecular remission occurred in 94 and 40% (P=0.002) of patients with FL and CLL, respectively. On multivariate analysis, OS was influenced by chemorefractory disease (hazard ratio (HR)=3.6), diagnosis of HD (HR=3.5), and acute GVHD (HR=5.9). RIC allogeneic SCT is a feasible and effective salvage strategy in both indolent and aggressive NHL."
1395	"B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cell is characterized by the accumulation  of long-lived CD5+ B lymphocytes, whose survival in vivo is in part dependent on  exogenous factors such as cytokines and/or extracellular matrix proteins. Homeostatic chemokines are critical mediators of lymphoid cell trafficking. However, how they function in cell signaling and survival remains ill-defined. In this study, we have investigated the role of the homeostatic chemokines, CXCL12,  CCL21, CCL19 and CXCL13, in B-CLL cell survival. Using primary leukemic cells isolated from 26 patients, we observed that each chemokine enhances cell survival. Chemokines induced the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and p90RSK, and of Akt and its effectors GSK3 and FOXO3a. Consistently, inhibitors against mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibited chemokine-induced survival. Moreover, using a constitutively active mutated form of FOXO3a or siRNAs against FOXO3a in  transfection experiments performed in primary B-CLL cells, we directly demonstrated the critical role of FOXO3a in both spontaneous and chemokine-induced B-CLL cell survival. Overall, our data support the notion that  homeostatic chemokines contribute to B-CLL resistance to cell death through inactivation of the transcription factor FOXO3a, which may represent a novel therapeutic target in this hematopoietic malignancy."
1396	"BACKGROUND: Involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) is a rare complication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and seems to be more frequent  in patients with Richter's syndrome or prolymphocytic transformation. Cases with  leptomeningeal involvement reported in the literature mostly do not discuss the definition of CLL-associated meningeosis and the exclusion of neuroborreliosis. PATIENT AND METHODS: We present the case of a 75-year-old male patient who was admitted to a rural hospital with ataxia, disorientation, and signs of progressive CLL disease. He was diagnosed of suspicious meningeosis leukemica, and treatment was started with dexamethasone for leukemic CNS involvement. RESULTS: When referred to our center, careful immunophenotyping of the CNS lymphocytes as well as assessment for infectious causes of lymphocytic meningitis led to the diagnosis of Lyme disease/neuroborreliosis. An antibiotic regimen with ceftriaxone for 3 weeks resulted in complete remission of all symptoms. There was no need for CLL treatment. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, this case report should alert clinicians that lymphocytic meningeal involvement in CLL patients accounts for the rare leukemic  meningeosis only if cerebrospinal fluid cells show a predominating immunophenotype of typical BCLL cells, i.e. by flow cytometry, and if any infectious cause including Lyme disease has been ruled out."
1400	"Although chemotherapy can induce complete responses in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), it is not considered curative. Treated patients generally develop recurrent disease requiring additional therapy, which can cause worsening immune dysfunction, myelosuppression, and selection for chemotherapy-resistant leukemia-cell subclones. Cellular immune therapy promises  to mitigate these complications and potentially provide for curative treatment. Most experience with this is in the use of allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (allo-HSCT), in which graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effects can be  observed and shown responsible for long-term disease-free survival. However, use  of allo-HSCT for CLL is limited because of the lack of suitable donors and the treatment-related morbidity/mortality for elderly patients, who constitute the majority at risk for developing this disease. The GVL effect, however, suggests there are specific CLL-associated antigens that could be targeted in autologous cellular immune therapy. Effective strategies for this will have to overcome the  disease-related acquired immune deficiency and the capacity of the leukemia-cell  to induce T-cell tolerance, thereby compromising the activity of even conventional vaccines in patients with this disease. We will discuss the different strategies being developed to overcome these limitations that might provide for effective cellular immune therapy of CLL."
1401	"Cell-based immunotherapy in settings of allogeneic stem cell transplantation or donor leukocyte infusion has curative potential, especially in hematologic malignancies. However, this approach is severely restricted due to graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). This limitation may be overcome if target antigens are molecularly defined and effector cells are specifically selected. We chose formin-related protein in leukocytes 1 (FMNL1) as a target antigen after intensive investigation of its expression profile at the mRNA and protein levels. Here, we confirm restricted expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy donors but also observe overexpression in different leukemias and aberrant expression in transformed cell lines derived from solid tumors. We isolated allorestricted T-cell clones expressing a single defined TCR  recognizing a particular HLA-A2-presented peptide derived from FMNL1. This T-cell clone showed potent antitumor activity against lymphoma and renal cell carcinoma  cell lines, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B cells, and primary tumor samples derived from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), whereas nontransformed cells with the exception of activated B cells were only marginally recognized. Allorestricted TCRs with specificity for naturally presented FMNL1-derived epitopes may represent promising reagents for the development of adoptive therapies in lymphoma and other malignant diseases."
1402	"PURPOSE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)  are currently considered the same entity, but controversy remains over whether CLL and SLL should be treated similarly. We assessed whether characteristics of patients with CLL and SLL differ in ways other than the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) and evaluated treatment outcomes and prognostic factors. METHODS: We searched the electronic database for patients with CLL or SLL who presented to The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center (Houston, TX) between 1985 and 2005. We reviewed patient records to determine presenting characteristics, treatment, and clinical outcomes. Cox models using training and  validation sets of patients and resampling methods were used to develop a model predicting survival. RESULTS: Among 2,126 consecutive CLL/SLL patients, 312 (15%) had ALC less than 5  x 10(9)/L. Patients with ALC less than 5 x 10(9)/L had lower rates of cytogenetic abnormalities (P = .0002) and higher rates of CD38-positive results (P = .0002) and had mutated immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region gene status (P = .034). Rates of response, survival, and failure-free survival (FFS) were not different among ALC groups. Regimens that included rituximab and a nucleoside analog were associated with superior rates of response and FFS compared with other therapies, irrespective of ALC. Deletion 17p or 6q with or without other cytogenetic abnormalities, age at least 60 years, beta2-microglobulin at least 2  mg/L, albumin less than 3.5 g/dL, and creatinine at least 1.6 mg/dL were each found to independently predict shorter survival and formed the basis of a scoring system. CONCLUSION: Patients with CLL or SLL can be treated similarly. A new prognostic score is proposed."
1403	"Cancer results from the interaction of multiple aberrations including activation  of dominant oncogenes and upregulation of signal transduction pathways. Identification of the genes involved in malignant transformation is a pre-requisite for understanding cancer and improving its diagnosis and treatment. Quite a few of the genes that have been implicated in cancer are mutant or aberrantly expressed versions of genes that are important mediators of the normal growth that occurs during development. An important example of this is Vav1, a cytoplasmic signal transducer protein initially identified as an oncogene. Physiological expression of Vav1 is restricted to the hematopoietic system, where its best-known function is as a GDP/GTP nucleotide exchange factor for Rho/Rac GTPases, an activity strictly controlled by tyrosine phosphorylation. Vav1 was shown to regulate cytoskeletal rearrangement during activation of hematopoietic cells. Vav1 can also mediate other cellular functions including activation of the JNK, ERK, Ras, NF-kB, and NFAT pathways, in addition to association with numerous adapter proteins such as Shc, NCK, SLP-76, GRB2, and Crk. Although the oncogenic  form of Vav1 has not been detected in clinical human tumors, its wild-type form has recently been implicated in mammalian malignancies such as neuroblastoma, melanoma, pancreatic tumors and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This review  addresses the physiological function of wild-type Vav1, its mode of activation as an oncogene, and its emerging role as a transforming protein in human cancer."
1404	"Although small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) is an indolent lymphoma, approximately  5% of cases can transform to a higher-grade lymphoma, rarely Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). We report the fine-needle aspiration (FNA) results of 6 cases of SLL/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) that transformed to HL. FNA findings were  correlated with the histologic features and clinical follow-up. The patients included 5 men and 1 woman, ranging in age from 49 to 72 years at the time of SLL/CLL diagnosis with time for development of HL ranging from 0 to 95 months (mean, 49.3 months). The FNA diagnoses were SLL with HL transformation (2 cases), SLL with large atypical cells (1 case), and atypical lymphoid proliferation with  large atypical cells (3 cases). Flow cytometry performed in 5 cases (2 FNA specimens) demonstrated a monoclonal B-cell population with CD19/CD5 coexpression. The presence of large atypical mononucleated and binucleated cells  in lymph node FNA specimens from patients with SLL/CLL with progressive adenopathy should raise the possibility of transformation to HL. In these cases,  histologic confirmation is always recommended, not only to differentiate HL transformation from other entities but also for subclassification of HL."
1405	"The renal diseases associated with monoclonal immunoglobulin deposits constitute  a diverse range of clinical and pathological entities. Renal prognosis is variable, and there currently are no standard treatment regimens. We describe the effect of rituximab treatment on 3 patients with renal insufficiency and proteinuria with monoclonal immunoglobulin deposits associated with glomerulonephritis on renal biopsy. Two patients with hypertension and chronic lymphocytic leukemia had a membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis pattern on kidney biopsy associated with monoclonal immunoglobulin G deposits. Both patients experienced partial remission of their disease and 1 patient was able to come off hemodialysis therapy after treatment with 7 and 11 biweekly doses of rituximab, 375 mg/m(2), in addition to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and angiotensin receptor blocker. Both patients subsequently experienced relapse of their hematologic and renal diseases and eventually progressed to end-stage renal disease and death. A third patient had diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis with immunoglobulin G lambda deposits on renal biopsy. She was treated with an angiotensin receptor blocker and two 1,000-mg infusions of rituximab separated by 2 weeks, with sustained partial remission at 18 months' follow-up. Rituximab therapy, in addition to corticosteroids and angiotensin blockade, may improve the clinical course of patients with renal diseases associated with dysproteinemias,  delaying the onset of end-stage renal failure or other adverse outcomes. Additional clinical studies should be planned."
1406	"Approximately 5% of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients develop  a secondary aggressive lymphoma, usually of diffuse large B-cell type (DLBCL), termed Richter's transformation (RT). Rarely, classic Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) is observed. Published small series suggest that tumor cells in DLBCL and HL can be  clonally identical to the B-CLL clone or arise as an independent, secondary lymphoma. We describe the morphology, immunophenotype, and clinical features of 34 classic RT patients with DLBCL, 6 cases of B-CLL with HL, and 8 cases with scattered CD30-positive Hodgkin and Reed-Sternberg (HRS)-like cells. The clonal relationship of the 2 components was analyzed using sequencing analysis of immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgVH) genes. In classic RT, 18/23 B-CLL cases (78%) showed clonal progression to DLBCL with identical IgVH sequences in both lymphoma components, whereas in 5 cases (22%) the DLBCL was clonally unrelated. Among clonally related RT samples, 73% carried unmutated IgVH genes, whereas 4/5 unrelated cases were mutated. Immunophenotypically, most cases of DLBCL irrespective of clonal relatedness showed significant differences in phenotype compared with the B-CLL, with common loss of CD5 and CD23. Using immuno-laser capture microdissection, sequencing of the IgVH CDR3 region of isolated HRS cells showed that 2/2 cases with HL were clonally unrelated, whereas they were clonally identical in 1/2 cases of B-CLL with scattered HRS-like cells. HRS or HRS-like cells in all 3 unrelated cases showed evidence of Epstein-Barr virus infection. Of interest, 5/6 cases of B-CLL with HL, and 5/6 cases of B-CLL  with HRS cells showed mutated IgVH genes."
1407	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) is a clonal lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by proliferation of morphologically and immunophenotypically mature lymphocytes. CLL/SLL may proceed through different phases: an early phase in which tumor cells are predominantly small in  size, with a low proliferation rate and prolonged cell survival, and a transformation phase with the frequent occurrence of extramedullary proliferation and an increase in large, immature cells. Although some patients with CLL have an indolent disease course and die after many years of unrelated causes, others have very rapidly disease progression and die of the disease within a few years of the diagnosis. In the past few years, considerable progress has been made in our ability to diagnose and classify CLL accurately. Through cytogenetics and molecular biology, it has been shown that CLL and variants are associated with a  unique genotypic profile and that these genetic lesions often have a direct bearing on the pathogenesis and prognosis of the disease. Similarly, the development of antibodies to new biologic markers has allowed the identification  of a unique immunophenotypic profile for CLL and variants. Moreover, accumulating evidence suggests that CLL cells respond to selected microenvironmental signals and that this confers a growth advantage and an extended survival to CLL cells. In this article, we will review the progress in the pathobiology of CLL and give  an update on prognostic markers and tools in current pathology practice for risk  stratification of CLL."
1408	"Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been shown to inhibit carcinogenesis in colon cancer, and to induce apoptosis in a variety of tumor cell lines. Some anti-tumor effects are thought to be related to their cyclooxygenase-2-inhibitory activity, but recent studies have shown that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs exert their anti-tumor effect via cyclooxygenase-2-independent mechanism. SDX-308 (CEP-18082) is a non-cyclooxygenase-2-inhibiting indole-pyran analog and  is structurally related to SDX-101, an R-enantiomer of etodolac. SDX-308 has a potent anti-myeloma effect and shows synergism in combination with other drugs for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In addition SDX-308 inhibits osteoclast formation and activity and thereby might be an attractive drug for the treatment of diseases with increased osteoclast activity such as osteolytic lesions in multiple myeloma and metastatic carcinomas, as well as osteoporosis. This review covers future application of SDX-308 as an anti-myeloma drug regulating increased osteoclast activity."
1409	"We assessed the capacity of positively selected autologous CD133(+) hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) to reconstitute lymphomyelopoiesis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients receiving myeloablative chemotherapy. Ten resistant/relapsed CLL patients underwent HSC mobilization with chemotherapy and  granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). Positive selection of circulating  CD133(+) HSCs was performed by immunomagnetic technique. Highly purified HSCs were reinfused after busulphan/melphalan myeloablative treatment. A median number of 4.2 x 10(6) CD34(+) cells/kg and of 3.14 x 10(6) CD133(+) cells/kg were collected. Immunomagnetic selection resulted in the reinfusion of a median number of 2.45 x 10(6) CD133(+) cells/kg (median purity: 94.8%; median recovery: 84%) and 2.4 x 10(6) CD34(+) cells/kg (median purity: 93%; median recovery: 71%). HSC  selection resulted in a median T cell and CD19(+)/CD5(+) cell depletion of 3.85 log and 2.8 log, respectively. At the molecular level, however, 7 of 8 valuable purified HSC fractions were contaminated by leukemic cells. All CLL patients showed rapid and sustained myeloid engraftment after reinfusion of purified CD133(+) cells. Immunologic reconstitution was comparable to that routinely observed in patients reinfused with unmanipulated leukapheresis products and no late infectious complications were observed. With a median follow-up of 28 months for transplanted patients, 5 patients are in clinical complete remission, 3 are in partial remission, and 1 is in progression. In conclusion, the reinfusion of highly purified CD133(+) HSCs allowed the rapid and sustained recovery of hematopoiesis after myeloablative treatment in resistant/relapsed CLL patients. However, the purging potential of positive selection of CD133(+) cells is not adequate to achieve tumor-free autografts."
1410	"Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) after nonmyeloablative conditioning for hematologic malignancies depends on graft-versus-tumor effects for eradication of cancer. Here, we estimated relapse risks according to disease  characteristics. Between 1997 and 2006, 834 consecutive patients (median age, 55  years; range, 5-74 years) received related (n = 498) or unrelated (n = 336) HCT after 2 Gy total body irradiation alone (n = 171) or combined with fludarabine (90 mg/m(2); n = 663). Relapse rates per patient year (PY) at risk, corrected for follow-up and competing nonrelapse mortality, were calculated for 29 different diseases and stages. The overall relapse rate per PY was 0.36. Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM) in remission (CR), low-grade or mantle cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) (CR + partial remission [PR]), and high-grade NHL-CR had the lowest rates (0.00-0.24; low risk). In contrast, patients with advanced myeloid and lymphoid malignancies had rates of more than 0.52 (high risk). Patients with lymphoproliferative diseases not in CR  (except Hodgkin lymphoma and high-grade NHL) and myeloid malignancies in CR had rates of 0.26-0.37 (standard risk). In conclusion, patients with low-grade lymphoproliferative disorders experienced the lowest relapse rates, whereas patients with advanced myeloid and lymphoid malignancies had high relapse rates after nonmyeloablative HCT. The latter might benefit from cytoreductive treatment before HCT."
1411	"CD37 is a lineage-specific B-cell antigen that to date has been neglected as an attractive therapeutic target. To exploit this, novel CD37-specific small modular immunopharmaceuticals (CD37-SMIP) that include variable regions linked to modified human IgG(1) hinge, CH(2), and CH(3) domains were designed. The lead CD37-SMIP molecule induces potent apoptosis in the presence of a cross-linker, and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity against B-cell leukemia/lymphoma cell lines and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells superior to therapeutic antibodies used in these diseases. The CD37-SMIP-dependent ADCC function in vitro was mediated by natural killer (NK) cells but not naive or activated monocytes. Significant in vivo therapeutic efficacy was demonstrated in a SCID mouse xenograft leukemia/lymphoma model. Depletion of NK cells in this mouse model resulted in diminished efficacy further supported the in vivo importance of NK cells in SMIP therapy. These findings provide strong justification for CD37 as a therapeutic target and introduce small modular immunopharmaceuticals as a novel class of targeted therapies for B-cell malignancies."
1412	"Although a diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) can have a profound effect on the quality of life (QOL), few studies have objectively measured the QOL of CLL patients or compared it to the general population. We conducted an international, web-based survey of patients with CLL using standardized instruments with published population norms to evaluate fatigue and QOL. Co-morbid health conditions were assessed using the Charlson Co-Morbidity Index.  Between June and October 2006, 1482 patients with CLL responded to the survey. The physical, social/family, functional, and overall QOL scores of CLL patients were similar to or better than published population norms. In contrast, the emotional well-being scores of CLL patients were dramatically lower than that of  both the general population (P < 0.001) and patients with other types of cancer (P < 0.001). QOL scores were lower among individuals with advanced stage disease  (all P < 0.05). Factors associated with lower overall QOL on multivariate analysis included older age, greater fatigue, severity of co-morbid health conditions, and current treatment. CLL has a profound impact on QOL at all disease stages. The effects of CLL on QOL appear to differ from that of other malignancies with a more marked impact on emotional QOL. Research identifying efficacious psycho-oncologic support interventions for patients with CLL is needed."
1413	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is heterogeneous with respect to prognosis and clinical outcome. The mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain region (IGHV) has been used to classify patients into 2 groups in terms of overall survival (OS) and clinical characteristics, but the labor-intensive nature and the cost of this time-consuming analysis has prompted  investigations of surrogate markers. METHODS: We developed a standardized quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR (qPCR) method to measure zeta-chain (TCR)-associated protein kinase (ZAP70) mRNA in purified CD19(+) cells. We evaluated this and other methods (flow cytometry analyses of ZAP70 and CD38 proteins and qPCR analysis of  lipoprotein lipase mRNA) in a cohort of 108 patients (median follow-up, 82 months) to evaluate any associations with IGHV mutational status, OS, and treatment-free survival (TFS). RESULTS: The association between qPCR-measured ZAP70 and IGHV mutational status was statistically significant [chi(2) (1) = 50.95; P <0.0001], and the value of Cramer's V statistic (0.72) indicated a very strong relation. This method also demonstrated sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of 87.8%, 85.7%, 87.5%, and 86%, respectively. ZAP70 expression was significantly associated with OS (P = 0.0021) and TFS (P <0.0001). ZAP70(+) patients had significantly shorter median TFS (24 months) than ZAP70(-) patients  (157 months) (P <0.0001). Moreover, qPCR-measured ZAP70 expression has greater prognostic power than IGHV mutational status and the other prognostic markers tested. CONCLUSIONS: ZAP70 mRNA quantification via qPCR is a strong surrogate marker of IGHV mutational status and a powerful prognostic factor."
1414	"PURPOSE: To describe a patient with a sebaceous adenoma of the bulbar conjunctiva, a distinctly unusual site for this tumor, associated with glioblastoma multiforme and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. METHODS: A 69-year-old woman presented with a red nodule on the temporal bulbar conjunctiva. The mass was excised. RESULTS: Histopathologic examination of the tumor showed a sebaceous adenoma. Within 3 months, she was discovered to have a temporoparietal glioblastoma multiforme and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The patient died 5 months after the  ocular diagnosis because of cardiovascular complications. CONCLUSIONS: Sebaceous adenoma is an exceedingly rare tumor of the bulbar conjunctiva and may be associated with several systemic malignancies."
1415	"Richter's syndrome (RS) is the development of high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma. This process may be triggered by viral infections (eg, Epstein-Barr virus infection), which are common in immunosuppressed patients. The large cells  of RS either arise through a transformation of the original CLL clone or, less frequently, represent a new or secondary neoplasm. Karyotypic changes, including  trisomy 12, chromosome 11 abnormalities, and multiple cell-cycle regulator disruptions, have been found in patients with RS. Although these genetic defects  are believed to cause CLL cells to proliferate and, by facilitating the acquisition of new genetic abnormalities, to transform into RS cells, none appears predominantly responsible for the transformation. The prognosis is generally poor, and most patients do not have long-term (durable) responses to therapy. Rituximab and cytotoxic combination therapy followed by stem cell transplantation is associated with improved clinical outcome. Curative treatment  strategies are needed."
1416	"OBJECTIVE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells develop chemoresistance over  time associated with defects in apoptosis pathway. Novel treatment strategies are required to overcome resistance of cells to commonly used agents. The effects of  valproic acid (VPA), an antiepileptic drug with histone deacetylase inhibitory activity, on mononuclear cells isolated from 40 CLL patients were evaluated. METHODS: CLL cells were treated with increasing doses of VPA (0.5, 1, 2, and 5 mM). The mode of cytotoxic drug action was determined by annexin binding, DNA fragmentation, and caspase activation. RESULTS: Exposure of CLL cells to VPA resulted in dose-dependent cytotoxicity and apoptosis in the 40 CLL patients. VPA treatment induced apoptotic changes in CLL  cells including phosphatidylserine externalization and DNA fragmentation. The mean apoptotic rates were similar between IgV(H) mutated and unmutated patients,  the latter presenting a more aggressive clinical course. VPA induced apoptosis via the extrinsic pathway involving engagement of the caspase-8-dependent cascade. Although CLL cells are commonly resistant to death receptor-induced apoptosis, VPA significantly increased sensitivity of leukemic cells to tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) and led to downregulation of c-FLIP (L) expression. VPA caused no potentialization of TRAIL-induced apoptosis on normal B cells. In addition, VPA overcame the prosurvival effects of bone marrow stromal cells. CONCLUSION: These findings point out that the combination of TRAIL and VPA, at clinically relevant concentration, may be valuable in the treatment of CLL."
1417	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells, like normal  B-cells, exist in two populations in vivo: quiescent cells in the peripheral circulation and proliferating cells in lymph nodes. The surface marker CD38 has roles in cell adhesion and signaling. Its expression correlates with poor clinical outcome and is associated with expression of the signaling intermediate  ZAP-70, which is also a marker of poor prognosis. We investigated the regulation  of CD38 and ZAP-70 in proliferating CLL cells. DESIGN AND METHODS: We cultured CLL cells on a stromal cell layer that maintains  viability and also with some stromal cells expressing CD40 ligand (CD154) in order to measure changes in expression of CD38 and ZAP-70. RESULTS: We demonstrated up-regulation of CD38 expression by CD154. The degree of up-regulation did not correlate with clinical stage or mutational status. In addition in the majority of cases tested ZAP-70 expression increased in parallel  with up-regulation of CD38 although discordant cases were also observed. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Overall we demonstrated that regulation of CD38 in CLL is dynamic and dependent on signals from CD154 and a stromal cell layer. We speculate that CD38 and ZAP-70 are expressed in lymph node leukemic cells in both good and poor prognosis patients, but, in cases with good clinical outcome,  these molecules are down-regulated in the peripheral blood whereas in cases with  poor prognosis their expression is maintained."
1418	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Increased bone marrow (BM) angiogenesis has been demonstrated in several hematologic malignancies. BM angiogenesis is significantly decreased in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) treated with fludarabine. The anti-angiogenic potential of alemtuzumab in CLL has not yet been investigated. We, therefore, evaluated BM angiogenesis in CLL patients treated sequentially with fludarabine and low doses of alemtuzumab. DESIGN AND METHODS: BM microvessel area was sequentially evaluated in 20 patients with advanced B-cell CLL who received, after a clinical response obtained with fludarabine-induction therapy, alemtuzumab, three times weekly for 6 weeks at a dose of 10 mg. RESULTS: The complete response rate improved from 45% after fludarabine induction to 90% after alemtuzumab consolidation. The extent of BM angiogenesis decreased continuously after either fludarabine or alemtuzumab (p=0.0002; Kruskal-Wallis test). Thirteen out of 20 (65%) patients changed from having a monoclonal to a polyclonal pattern of IgH sequences after alemtuzumab consolidation. A separate evaluation carried out in patients who achieved molecularly undetectable disease, as defined by polymerase chain reaction negativity, and in patients who remained  with minimal residual disease after therapy with alemtuzumab showed a significant reduction of BM microvessel area only in the former (p=0.0002). Finally, molecular responses and a significant reduction of BM angiogenesis were more common in patients who received the cumulative planned dose of alemtuzumab (i.e.,180 mg) than in patients who received reduced doses (p=0.007 and p=0.0001,  respectively). INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Overall, these data demonstrate a decrease in BM  vascularity that characterized CLL patients who received low doses of subcutaneous alemtuzumab consolidation therapy after a clinical response to fludarabine induction therapy. Such a finding reflects, at least in part, the molecular response and cumulative dose of alemtuzumab."
1419	"Since most intracellular proteins are expressed with their ligands, ligands of cancer-testis (CT) antigens may also be CT in their distribution. Applying Sperm  protein 17 (Sp17) as the bait in a yeast 2-hybrid system of a testicular cDNA library, 17 interacting clones were isolated and all encoded Ropporin, a spermatogenic cell-specific protein that serves as an anchoring protein for the A-kinase anchoring protein, AKAP110. Ropporin showed a very restricted normal tissue gene expression, detected only in testis and fetal liver. Ropporin mRNA could also be detected in tumor cells from patients with multiple myeloma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia. Interestingly, expression of Sp17 did not necessarily predict for the expression of Ropporin suggesting that their coexpression in these tumor cells was random rather than coordinated. Ropporin gene expression in tumor cells is associated with the presence of high titer IgG antibodies against Ropporin, suggesting the in vivo translation of the mRNA into protein and the immunogenicity of the protein to the autologous hosts. Using a CT antigen as the bait in a yeast 2-hybrid system may,  therefore, identify novel tumor antigen. Our results also suggest that Ropporin is a novel CT antigen in hematologic malignancies."
1420	"Obesity is associated with altered immune and inflammatory responses and it may therefore influence the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. However, epidemiologic findings on obesity in relation to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma have been inconsistent. We conducted a meta-analysis to summarize the epidemiologic evidence on the association between excess body weight and risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Relevant studies were identified by searching MEDLINE (1966 to February 2007) and the reference lists of retrieved publications. We included cohort and case-control studies that reported relative risk (RR) estimates with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the association of body mass index (BMI) with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma incidence or mortality. A random-effects model was used to combine results from individual studies. Sixteen studies (10 cohorts and 6 case-control studies), with 21,720 cases, met the inclusion criteria. Compared to individuals of normal weight (BMI < 25.0 kg/m(2)), the summary RRs of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were 1.07 (95% CI, 1.01-1.14) for overweight individuals (BMI between 25 and 30 kg/m(2)) and 1.20 (95% CI, 1.07-1.34) for those who were obese (BMI >/=>/=>/=>/= 30.0 kg/m(2)). Meta-analysis stratified by histologic subtypes showed that obesity was associated with a statistically significant increased risk of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (RR, 1.40; 95% CI, 1.18-1.66; n = 6 studies) but not of follicular lymphoma (RR, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.82-1.47; n = 6 studies) or small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (RR, 0.95; 95% CI, 0.76-1.20; n = 3 studies). These findings indicate that excess body weight is associated with an increased risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, especially of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma."
1421	"In B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), Rai stage, immunoglobulin gene mutational status, chromosomal abnormalities, CD38 and ZAP-70 expression were used as prognostic markers. In this study, to understand the molecular basis of chromosomal abnormalities leading to tumor progression, 90 CLL patients were grouped into poor prognosis (with 11q deletion and trisomy 12) and good prognosis (with normal karyotype and 13q deletion) and their clinical outcome was assessed. Gene expression profiles of 35 CLL samples with poor outcome (11q deletion, n=9;  trisomy 12, n=5) and good outcome (13q deletion, n=13; normal karyotype, n=8) were analyzed using oligonucleotide microarray. Significance analysis of microarray (SAM) identified 27 differentially expressed genes between these two subgroups with significant overexpression of ATF5 and underexpression of CDC16, PCDH8, SLAM, MNDA and ATF2 in CLL patients with poor outcome. ATF5 gene expression in CLL was further studied because of its role in the regulation of cell cycle progression/differentiation and apoptosis. The overexpression of ATF5  was confirmed by real-time PCR using 39 CLL samples from the poor and good outcome groups. ATF5 was significantly (p<0.001) overexpressed in the poor outcome group. Furthermore, ATF5 expression was significantly higher in the 11q deletion as well as trisomy 12 group alone compared to the 13q deletion and normal karyotype groups. ATF5 overexpression was also associated with significantly (p=0.04) shorter time to treatment. Similarly, expression of five underexpressed genes also correlated with longer time to treatment. Thus, this report demonstrates that ATF5 may be one of the key genes involved in increased proliferation and survival in 11q deletion or trisomy 12, whereas CD16, CD86, SLAM, MNDA and ATF2 may be involved in the decreased proliferation of CLL cells with 13q deletion or normal karyotype."
1422	"Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) has tropism for the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) identifiable as multiple polyps and mass lesions throughout the GIT. We describe  2 novel manifestations of MCL. A 60-year-old woman with known chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) had an exophytic mass of the appendiceal orifice. Multiple polypoid masses of the distal ileum were identified in the right hemicolectomy specimen (multiple lymphomatous polyposis). Ancillary studies confirmed the coexistence of the 2 independent lymphoproliferative disorders. A 69-year-old man had recurrent urinary tract infections and pneumatouria caused by a colovesicular fistula complicating diverticulosis coli. Segmental resections of the sigmoid and ileocecum confirmed diverticulosis of the left and right colon. Histology identified infiltrates of MCL confined to the penetrating aspects of colonic diverticula. MCL has not been documented to coexist with CLL. An invaginating morphology of lymphoma, multiple lymphomatous diverticulosis is also a novel presentation. These 2 scenarios expand MCL's known manifestations within the GIT."
1423	"Among 14 peripheral blood samples obtained from patients affected by B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) at initial stages (Rai 0-1) of the disease, 6 showed intermediate/high levels of Zap-70 while 8 displayed low/absent levels of Zap-70. Although Zap-70(high) and Zap-70(low) B-CLL samples displayed similar levels of surface death receptor TRAIL-R2, recombinant TRAIL induced cytotoxicity only in a subset of Zap-70(low) B-CLL samples while Zap-70(high) were completely resistant  to TRAIL. The gene expression profiling was next analyzed in all B-CLL samples treated with either chlorambucil or recombinant TRAIL. While chlorambucil up-regulated the steady-state mRNA levels of known p53 target genes, such as PUMA, Fas/CD95 and MDM2 in all B-CLL samples examined, it significantly down-regulated survivin in Zap-70(low) but not in Zap-70(high). On the other hand, recombinant TRAIL up-regulated the expression of several cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-1alpha, IL-8), which have been involved in promoting B-CLL cell survival. In particular, TRAIL selectively up-regulated IL-1beta in Zap-70(low) B-CLL samples, while it markedly and selectively up-regulated its own mRNA and that of cyclooxigenase-2 (COX-2) in Zap-70(high). Taken together, our findings suggest that a significant expression of Zap-70 modulate the response of B-CLL to TRAIL, which might represents an initial step in the pathogenesis of B-CLL."
1424	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) results in the accumulation of B cells, presumably reflecting the selection of malignant cell precursors with Ag combined with complex alterations in protein activity. Repeated BCR stimulation of normal  B cells leads to anergy and CD5 expression, both of which are features of CLL. Because CD5 is phosphorylated on tyrosine following BCR engagement and negatively regulates BCR signaling in normal B cells, we investigated its phosphorylation status and found it to be naturally phosphorylated on tyrosine but not on serine  residues in CLL samples. To analyze the role of CD5, we established a B cell line in which CD5 is phosphorylated. Gene profiling of vector vs CD5-transfected B cells pointed out gene groups whose expression was enhanced: Apoptosis inhibitors (BCL2), NF-kappaB (RELB, BCL3), Wnt, TGFbeta, VEGF, MAPKs, Stats, cytokines, chemokines (IL-10, IL-10R, IL-2R, CCL-3, CCL-4, and CCR7), TLR-9, and the surface Ags CD52, CD54, CD70, and CD72. Most of these gene groups are strongly expressed  in CLL B cells as compared with normal B cells. Unexpectedly, metabolic pathways, namely cholesterol synthesis and adipogenesis, are also enhanced by CD5. Conversely, CD5 inhibited genes involved in RNA splicing and processing, ribosome biogenesis, proteasome, and CD80 and CD86 Ags, whose expression is low in CLL. Comparison of CD5- vs tailless CD5-transfected cells further demonstrated the role of CD5 phosphorylation in the regulation of selected genes. These results support a model where CLL cells are chronically stimulated, leading to CD5 activation and cell survival. In addition to CD5 itself, we point to several CD5-induced genes as potential therapeutic targets."
1425	"Incidental pelvic node malignant B-cell lymphomas diagnosed at the time of radical prostatectomy are rare. Their clinical outcome has not been studied. We studied thirteen such cases with long-term clinical follow-up. Patients were followed between 9 and 94 months after surgery. Of 13 cases, 9 were chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), 3 marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MZL) and 1 mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). All 13 patients did not receive  radiation or chemotherapy; and five of 13 cases showed hematologic evidence of lymphoma progression between 1 and 5 months after radical prostatectomy. After progression, the mantle cell lymphoma patient received aggressive chemotherapy and had systemic dissemination. Two of 13 cases had recurrent prostate carcinoma. None of 13 patients had died from lymphoma or prostate carcinoma at the last follow-up. In conclusion, most incidental pelvic node lymphomas (8/13) showed no  evidence of systemic dissemination to peripheral blood or bone marrow after a mean 42.8 weeks of follow-up despite the fact that no additional treatment was given. Strong consideration should be given to withholding further treatment in patients diagnosed with pelvic low-grade B-cell lymphoma at the time of radical prostatectomy until disease progression occurs."
1427	"Ligation of CD47 triggers caspase-independent programmed cell death (PCD) in normal and leukemic cells. Here, we characterize the morphological and biochemical features of this type of death and show that it displays the hallmarks of type III PCD. A molecular and biochemical approach has led us to identify a key mediator of this type of death, dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1).  CD47 ligation induces Drp1 translocation from cytosol to mitochondria, a process  controlled by chymotrypsin-like serine proteases. Once in mitochondria, Drp1 provokes an impairment of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, which results in dissipation of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, reactive oxygen  species generation, and a drop in ATP levels. Surprisingly, neither the activation of the most representative proapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family, such as Bax or Bak, nor the release of apoptogenic proteins AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor), cytochrome c, endonuclease G (EndoG), Omi/HtrA2, or  Smac/DIABLO from mitochondria to cytosol is observed. Responsiveness of cells to  CD47 ligation increases following Drp1 overexpression, while Drp1 downregulation  confers resistance to CD47-mediated death. Importantly, in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, mRNA levels of Drp1 strongly correlate with death sensitivity. Thus, this previously unknown mechanism controlling caspase-independent type III PCD may provide the basis for novel therapeutic approaches to overcome apoptotic avoidance in malignant cells."
1428	"The human cell lines CCRF-CEM (T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia), HL-60 (acute myeloid leukemia), MEC-1 (B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia) and Raji (Burkitt's B-cell lymphoma) have been analysed for differences in their nuclear proteomes. Using 2-D DIGE, 55 nuclear proteins have been identified that are differentially expressed (p<0.025) between the four cell lines, including proteins associated with transcription, proliferation, DNA repair and apoptosis.  Of these 55 proteins, 22 were over-expressed in just one cell line, and four were down-regulated in one cell line. Proteins uniquely over-expressed between myeloid and lymphoid cell lines include those that may have use as markers for diagnosis, disease progression and B-cell maturation and differentiation. Expression of various proliferation-associated nuclear proteins correlated with relative growth rates of the cell lines, giving these proteins potential diagnostic applications  for distinction of chronic versus acute subtypes of haematological malignancies.  Identification of these differentially expressed nuclear proteins should facilitate elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying leukocyte differentiation and transformation to leukemias and lymphomas. The nuclear expression profiles should enable classification of subtypes of leukemia, and identify potential nuclear protein targets for development of diagnostic and therapeutic strategies."
1430	"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) can be classified as primary (known also as idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura) or as secondary to an underlying condition such as a malignant or nonmalignant disorder. Commonly occurring conditions associated with secondary ITP include lymphoproliferative disorders (chronic lymphocytic leukemia [CLL], Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas), autoimmune collagen vascular diseases (systemic lupus erythematosus [SLE], thyroid disease, antiphospholipid syndrome [APS]), and chronic infections (human  immunodeficiency virus [HIV], Helicobacter pylori, hepatitis C virus [HCV]). The  mechanism of platelet destruction in thrombocytopenias associated with lymphoproliferative disorders and collagen vascular diseases is identical to the  autoimmune mechanism seen in primary ITP. Drug-induced thrombocytopenias are uncommon and generally resolve quickly upon drug discontinuation, but are often attributed to other causes. Platelet destruction in infection-associated ITP occurs via various mechanisms including accelerated platelet clearance due to immune complex disease as seen in HIV infection or cross-reactivity of anti-platelet glycoprotein antibodies and viral antigens in HIV, HCV, and H pylori infections (antigenic mimicry). In patients with HCV-related cirrhotic liver disease, splenic sequestration secondary to portal hypertension and decreased production of thrombopoietin may further contribute to development of thrombocytopenia. The current treatment paradigm for secondary ITP varies according to the underlying condition. Standard treatments for primary ITP (corticosteroids, IVIG, anti-D, splenectomy) are often successful in secondary ITP. In cases of ITP with H pylori and HCV infection, treatment should focus on the underlying disorder."
1431	"Autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) has been intensively investigated for treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) during recent years. To assess the potential therapeutic value of ASCT for CLL, the present article aims at answering the following crucial questions: (1) Does ASCT have curative potential? (2) What is the therapeutic potential of ASCT in terms of disease control in relation to toxicity? (3) What is the role of ASCT in the current arsenal of CLL treatment modalities? Evidence from clinical and minimal residual disease (MRD) studies suggests that ASCT has curative potential in only  a few patients, if any. Nevertheless, ASCT might be capable of prolonged disease  control even in CLL with poor-risk features. Uncontrolled prospective studies have indicated the superiority of ASCT over alkylator and fludarabine monotherapy but not necessarily over purine analogue cyclophosphamide or antibody combinations. A significant risk of secondary neoplasms, in particular myelodysplasias, has to be taken into account. Therefore, ASCT cannot be considered as standard treatment for CLL and should be performed only in the context of clinical trials."
1432	"Among adults in Western countries, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most prevalent form of leukemia. CLL primarily affects the elderly and may be associated with multiple comorbidities. A cure has not been identified, and new treatment options are needed. Expression of Bcl-2 protein is associated with the  pathogenesis of CLL and chemotherapy resistance. Oblimersen, a Bcl-2 antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotide, is being evaluated in patients with CLL and other cancers; trials through Phase III have been completed. In the setting of relapsed/refractory CLL, single-agent oblimersen demonstrates modest activity, whereas the addition of oblimersen to fludarabine/cyclophosphamide significantly  improves the rate of complete and nodular partial responses; moreover, these responses are durable and associated with clinical benefit. Oblimersen is more efficacious in relapsed rather than refractory patients. The side effect profile  of oblimersen, alone or in combination with standard chemotherapy, is favorable compared with currently available chemotherapies. In the first cycle, an infusion reaction with or without tumor lysis syndrome is uncommon, and transient thrombocytopenia is observed. Catheter-related complications are associated with  the need for continuous intravenous infusion of oblimersen over several days; other routes of administration are under clinical investigation. Oblimersen is a  promising therapeutic approach for patients with relapsed CLL and should be further evaluated in the front-line setting."
1436	"We here describe a novel xenograft model of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) generated by infusion of human primary CLL cells into immunodeficient nonobese/severe combined immunodeficient (NOD/SCID) mice. Combined i.v. and i.p.  injection of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 39 patients with CLL  resulted in highly reproducible splenic (37 of 39) and peritoneal (35 of 39) engraftment, which remained stable over a time span of 4 to 8 weeks. By comparison, recovery of leukemic cells from bone marrow (21 of 39) or peripheral  blood (8 of 22) was substantially lower. The engraftment pattern of CLL PBMC 4 weeks posttransplant was correlated with clinical disease activity: infusion of PBMC from donors with Binet stage A, lymphocyte doubling time of >12 months, and  normal lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) serum levels led to marked engraftment of T cells whereas comparably few tumor cells could be detected. In contrast, NOD/SCID mice receiving PBMC from donors with advanced stage Binet C, lymphocyte doubling  time of <12 months, and elevated LDH serum levels exhibited predominant engraftment of tumor cells and comparably low numbers of T cells. These results suggest that this model reflects the heterogeneity and important clinical characteristics of the disease, and thus may serve as a tool for preclinical drug testing and investigation of the pathophysiology of CLL."
1437	"We developed a novel approach for conducting multisample, multigene, ultradeep bisulfite sequencing analysis of DNA methylation patterns in clinical samples. A  massively parallel sequencing-by-synthesis method (454 sequencing) was used to directly sequence >100 bisulfite PCR products in a single sequencing run without  subcloning. We showed the utility, robustness, and superiority of this approach by analyzing methylation in 25 gene-related CpG rich regions from >40 cases of primary cells, including normal peripheral blood lymphocytes, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), follicular lymphoma (FL), and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). A total of 294,631 sequences was generated with an average read length of 131 bp. On average, >1,600 individual sequences were generated for each PCR amplicon far beyond the few clones (<20) typically analyzed by traditional bisulfite sequencing. Comprehensive analysis of CpG methylation patterns at a single DNA molecule level using clustering algorithms revealed differential methylation patterns between diseases. A significant increase in methylation was detected in ALL and FL samples compared with CLL and  MCL. Furthermore, a progressive spreading of methylation was detected from the periphery toward the center of select CpG islands in the ALL and FL samples. The  ultradeep sequencing also allowed simultaneous analysis of genetic and epigenetic data and revealed an association between a single nucleotide polymorphism and the methylation present in the LRP1B promoter. This new generation of methylome sequencing will provide digital profiles of aberrant DNA methylation for individual human cancers and offers a robust method for the epigenetic classification of tumor subtypes."
1438	"PURPOSE: In B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), high CD38 expression has been associated with unfavorable clinical course, advanced disease, resistance to therapy, shorter time to first treatment, and shorter survival. However, the genes associated with CLL patient subgroups with high and low CD38 expression and their potential role in disease progression is not known. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To identify the genes associated with the clinical disparity in CLL patients with high versus low CD38 expression, transcriptional profiles were obtained from CLL cells from 39 different patients using oligonucleotide microarray. Gene expression was also compared between CLL cells and B cells from  healthy individuals. RESULTS: Gene expression analysis identified 76 differentially expressed genes in CD38 high versus low groups. Out of these genes, HEM1, CTLA4, and MNDA were selected for further studies and their differential expression was confirmed by real-time PCR. HEM1 overexpression was associated with poor outcome, whereas the  overexpression of CTLA4 and MNDA was associated with good outcome. Down-regulation of HEM1 expression in patient CLL cells resulted in a significant increase in their susceptibility to fludarabine-mediated killing. In addition, when gene expression patterns in CD38 high and low CLL cells were compared with normal B-cell profiles, ATM expression was found to be significantly lower in CD38 high compared with CD38 low CLL as confirmed by real-time reverse transcription-PCR. CONCLUSIONS: These results identify the possible genes that may be involved in cell proliferation and survival and, thus, determining the clinical behavior of CLL patients expressing high or low CD38."
1439	"Infusion of standard-dose rituximab (RTX) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients promotes rapid complement activation and deposition of C3 fragments on CLL B cells. However, immediately after RTX infusions, there is substantial loss  (shaving) of CD20 from circulating malignant cells. Because shaving can compromise efficacies of anticancer immunotherapeutic mAbs, we investigated whether shaving occurs in SCID mouse models. Z138 cells, a B cell line derived from human mantle cell lymphoma, were infused i.v. or s.c. The i.v. model recapitulates findings we previously reported for therapeutic RTX in CLL: i.v. infused RTX rapidly binds to Z138 cells in lungs, and binding is accompanied by deposition of C3 fragments. However, within 1 h targeted cells lose bound RTX and CD20, and these shaved cells are still demonstrable 40 h after RTX infusion. Z138 cells grow in tumors at s.c. injection sites, and infusion of large amounts of RTX (0.50 mg on each of 4 days) leads to considerable loss of CD20 from these cells. Human i.v. Ig blocked shaving, suggesting that FcgammaRI on cells of the mononuclear phagocytic system promote shaving. Examination of frozen tumor sections from treated mice by immunofluorescence revealed large areas of B cells  devoid of CD20, with CD20 intact in adjacent areas; it is likely that RTX had opsonized Z138 cells closest to capillaries, and these cells were shaved by monocyte/macrophages. The shaving reaction occurs in neoplastic B cells in tissue and in peripheral blood, and strategies to enhance therapeutic targeting and block shaving are under development."
1440	"BACKGROUND: Biological agents are proving to be increasingly useful and exciting  additions to the antineoplastic armamentarium, but many clinicians are unfamiliar with the properties of these types of agents. OBJECTIVES: This review focuses on monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) that are used in  the treatment of hematologic malignancies. Our goal was to provide the reader with information on trials that led to US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of commonly used MAbs in hematologic malignancies, including their mechanisms of action and pharmacokinetics, with specific emphasis on use in elderly patients; we also present data on toxicities and precautions to be aware  of when administering these drugs. METHODS: Materials for this review were gathered based on a computerized literature search (English-language articles only) using the PubMed database covering the period January 1998 to December 2005. Search terms used included the following: elderly, monoclonal antibodies, and neoplasms. RESULTS: Alemtuzumab is a recombinant DNA-derived, humanized MAb directed against the CD52 B-cell antigen. It is indicated for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in patients who have been treated with alkylating agents and who have failed to respond to fludarabine therapy. Gemtuzumab ozogamicin is an MAb conjugated with a cytotoxic antitumor antibiotic, calicheamicin. It has been approved for use in patients with CD33-positive acute  myeloid leukemia (AML) in first relapse who are aged > or =60 years and who are not considered candidates for other cytotoxic chemotherapy. Rituximab, one of the first MAbs approved by the FDA for use in human cancers, is an antibody directed  against the CD20 antigen found on the surface of normal and malignant B lymphocytes. It is extensively used in the treatment of B-cell malignancies, such as CLL, and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs), such as follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. CONCLUSIONS: It is noteworthy that while there have been a number of studies using these agents in the younger population, there continues to be a paucity of  clinical trials targeting the elderly patient in particular; this continues to be an area of research interest. More clinical studies of these agents--conducted specifically in elderly patients with CLL, NHL, AML, and other hematologic malignancies--are needed."
1441	"The p15 gene is a putative tumor suppressor gene that encodes a member of the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors. Inactivation of p15 by promoter hypermethylation has been postulated as a possible way by which tumor suppressor  genes are inactivated in cancer. In this study, we examined the methylation status of the p15 gene promoter in 34 patients with B-Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (B-CLL), by the Methylation-Specific Polymerase Chain Reaction. Selective methylation of the p15 gene promoter was found in 4/34 cases (11.8%). According to Rai staging, the four patients with methylated p15 were staged on diagnosis as: 1 on Stage 0, 1 in Stage I, 1 in Stage III, and 1 in Stage IV. Our  results suggest that methylation of the p15 gene promoter can be detected in a small subset of B-CLL patients, at all stages of the disease."
1442	"The clinical heterogeneity that characterizes chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  poses critical questions concerning the identification of high risk patients. Unmutated IgV(H) genes, CD38 and ZAP-70 expression have emerged as the most useful tools in identifying aggressive CLL. The simultaneous expression of ZAP-70 and CD38 in 157 patients with CLL has been evaluated. Fifty-seven patients (36%)  were positive for ZAP-70 and 46 patients (29%) were positive for CD38. Both molecules were highly correlated and predictive of the clinical course of the disease. According to the simultaneous evaluation of ZAP-70 and CD38, patients were divided into three groups. In 81 patients (52%), there was a negative concordance of both molecules (ZAP-70(-)/CD38(-)); in 27 patients (17%) there was a positive concordance (ZAP-70(+)/CD38(+)); in 49 patients (31%) there was a discordant expression (ZAP-70(+)/CD38(-) and ZAP-70(-)/CD38(+)). A comparison of  the clinical and laboratory data showed in ZAP-70(+)/CD38(+) patients a significantly higher bone marrow and peripheral blood lymphocytosis, lower hemoglobin levels, more advanced clinical stage, and higher number of unmutated IgV(H) status with respect to the other two groups. Furthermore, ZAP-70(+)/CD38(+) patients displayed a much shorter treatment-free interval (median 12 months vs 42 months in discordant patients and not reached in ZAP-70(-)CD38(-) patients). These results prove that the concomitant evaluation of ZAP-70 and CD38 expression allows the separation of CLL patients in prognostic subgroups and suggest that their simultaneous assessment should become an integral component of the CLL diagnostic grid."
1444	"Gene therapy for patients with hematologic malignancies, particularly chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), have focused on transducing primary leukemia cells with a virus vector to express immune-stimulating genes which can induce and propagate a productive and clinically significant immune response against the malignant cells. A variety of replication-defective vectors has been studied to transduce genes for cytokines and function-associated surface molecules. Active vaccines have been developed in vitro, and their activity has been confirmed in clinical trials. Ongoing work aims to optimize this strategy and to identify the  appropriate and optimal patient groups in which to apply vaccine therapy. Clinical trials also have provided insight into unexpected alternative mechanisms through which these strategies might provide a clinical benefit."
1445	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a common leukemia with a highly variable natural history. A subset of patients with high-risk CLL rapidly progress to develop symptomatic disease requiring treatment. Over-represented in this group are those who have a deletion of 17p13.1, the chromosomal location of the tumor suppressor gene P53. Of all prognostic factors examined in CLL, del(17p13.1) has  a superior predictive value for poor response to conventional therapy. In this article we review the current published data on prognostic factors relevant to treatment in CLL. We next provide therapeutic recommendations for patients with del(17p13.1) that are available to oncologists in general practice. Chemoimmunotherapy, alemtuzumab, or high-dose corticosteroids are all effective as initial therapy for these patients, but progression is generally rapid. If allogeneic immune therapy is to be considered, it should be approached as part of initial or first salvage therapy. The investigational agent flavopiridol has also demonstrated clinical activity in this subset of patients. Identification of small molecules and new treatment approaches for patients with del(17p13.1) is a  major focus of several investigators. Selection of therapy based on high-risk genomic features represents an appropriate treatment approach supported by currently available published data."
1446	"Because of the lack of a curative treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and the poor prognosis of patients refractory to the newer and more effective therapies for this disease, stem-cell transplantation (SCT) is being increasingly performed in patients with CLL. The available evidence indicates that autologous SCT may prolong survival in highly selected patients, but does not result in cure. Conversely, allogeneic SCT may cure a proportion of patients, including those who are refractory to purine-analog-based therapy or with other unfavorable risk parameters, but at the cost of high morbidity and mortality. Reduced-intensity conditioning (non-myeloablative) regimens may contribute to reducing toxic deaths while preserving the antileukemic effect of the allograft,  and results are encouraging in patients with chemosensitive disease. Ongoing randomized studies will hopefully contribute to clarification of the role of SCT  in the management of CLL. Meanwhile, SCT in patients with CLL should be performed only within clinical studies."
1447	"The past two decades have seen a major paradigm shift in the therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), with the treatment goal shifting from symptom palliation to the attainment of maximal disease control using the most effective  frontline regimens available, thus prolonging survival and possibly leading to cure. The most potent therapeutic regimens developed to date include the chemoimmunotherapy combinations incorporating purine analogs and monoclonal antibodies. We review the evolution of modern chemoimmunotherapy for CLL, and discuss current research directions for further refining the potency of these regimens."
1448	"During the past 10 years, significant progress has been achieved in defining new  prognostic markers, diagnostic parameters, and treatment options in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). These developments have led to revision of the National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group (NCI-WG) guidelines on CLL established in 1988 and 1996. The update of these guidelines will clarify the role of new prognostic markers in CLL, improve the definitions of response and refractory disease, and add information on the prevention and management of infectious and autoimmune complications."
1449	"The clinical staging systems developed by Rai and Binet have remained the mainstay for clinical decision-making in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, there is substantial heterogeneity in the course of the  disease. In recent years molecular and cellular markers have helped to predict the prognosis of patients with CLL. Ig V(H) status and genomic aberrations subdivide CLL into distinct clinical subgroups. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) can identify genomic aberrations in approximately 80% of CLL cases. The most frequent aberrations are deletions in 13q, 11q, or 17p, and trisomy 12. Apart from providing insights into the pathogenesis, genomic aberrations identify subgroups of patients with distinct clinical pictures: lymphadenopathy (11q-) or resistance to therapy (17p-). Deletions at 11q and particularly 17p are associated with rapid disease progression or inferior survival. Patients with these genetic abnormalities may be candidates for clinical trials investigating alternative treatments and stem-cell transplantation."
1450	"New findings support the view that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a genetic disease in which the main alterations occur in a new class of genes named microRNAs (miRNAs). Cases with good prognostic features typically are characterized by miRNA down-regulation of genes miR-15a and miR-16-1, located at  13q14.3. Both microRNAs negatively regulate BCL2 at a post-transcriptional level. On the other hand, in CLL cases that use unmutated immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region genes (IgV(H)) or have high-level expression of the 70-kD zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) have high levels of TCL1 due to low-level expression of miR-29 and miR-181, which directly target this oncogene. Conceivably, these miRNAs might be used to target BCL2 or TCL1 for therapy of this disease."
1451	"In addition to the important observations relating immunoglobulin (Ig) mutation status to clinical behavior, studies on the Ig expressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have revealed compelling evidence that antigen selection contributes to the pathogenesis of this disease. CLL cells that use unmutated Ig  can generally be distinguished from CLL cells that use Ig with somatic mutations  by expression of the 70-kD zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70). ZAP-70 apparently enhances the capacity of CLL cells to respond to antigen, and therefore might play a causal role in the relatively aggressive clinical behavior noted for patients who have CLL cells that use unmutated Ig. Clinical surveys have found that expression of ZAP-70 by CLL cells is apparently a stronger predictor of early disease progression than is the use by CLL cells of unmutated Ig. As such,  strategies that respectively monitor or target Ig-receptor signaling in CLL might be very useful in the risk assessment or treatment of this disease."
1452	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) results from an accumulation of abnormal B cells due to an imbalance between birth and death rates such that the former exceeds the latter. This imbalance can occur as a result of increased birth, decreased death, or a combination of the two. CLL has long been considered a disease in which cell accumulation results from decreased death, due to a genetic defect, with minimal birth of the leukemic clone. This view was promulgated when  experimental options were limited and observations in vivo and in vitro were less precise--e.g. CLL cells appeared as resting lymphocytes by light microscopy and responded poorly to mitogens (primarily T-cell mitogens)--at a time when T- and B-cell discrimination was not well appreciated. However, recent studies using more sophisticated measures suggest that the initial characterization of CLL biology needs re-evaluation. Using a safe, non-radioactive in-vivo labeling method that permits the determination of CLL-cell birth rates, we have directly documented that a small fraction of the clone (approximately 0.1-1.75%), i.e., between approximately 1x10(9) and 1x10(12) cells are born each day in all patients studied. With this value, we calculated death rates of between 0 and 1x10(12) per day of leukemic cells from individual patients. Thus the dynamic interplay between birth and death that characterizes other leukemias and lymphomas applies to CLL. Therefore, CLL is a disease of both proliferation and accumulation in which a homeostatic balance exists in patients with stable lymphocyte counts or an imbalance exists in patients with rising lymphocyte counts."
1453	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by the monoclonal expansion of small mature-looking B cells that accumulate in the blood, marrow, and lymphoid organs, and have a remarkable phenotypic homogeneity. By definition, CLL cells co-express CD5 and CD23 with faint to undetectable amounts of monoclonal surface immunoglobulins (sIg). The concept of phenotypic homogeneity has been reinforced by gene expression profiling data, which suggest that the pathogenesis of CLL has to be associated with a fairly common mechanism of transformation. In  recent years the biology of CLL has been enriched by an unprecedented flurry of new observations that are leading to a better understanding of the natural history of the disease. Still CLL cells have so far defied any attempt to satisfactorily answer the simple time-honored question of what their cell of origin is. It is the purpose of this review to discuss the features a cell must possess to be considered with reasonable approximation the normal counterpart of  a CLL B cell."
1454	"Although during the past two decades there has been considerable progress in our  understanding of the pathophysiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and in our ability to treat this disease, actual integration of the newly identified pathophysiological mechanisms has not occurred. This perspective essay identifies some of the questions which deserve to be addressed by clinicians and scientists  involved in the study of CLL. The most important unresolved remaining issue, however, is the need for standardization of tests performed by commercial labs to assure the reliability and reproducibility of results of ZAP-70, CD38, IgV(H) gene mutation status and fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) cytogenetics."
1455	"Identification of cytosolic proteins differentially expressed between types of leukemia and lymphoma may provide a molecular basis for classification and understanding their cellular properties. Two-dimensional fluorescence difference  gel electrophoresis (DIGE) and mass spectrometry have been used to identify proteins that are differentially expressed in cytosolic extracts from four human  leukemia and lymphoma cell lines: HL-60 (acute promyelocytic leukemia), MEC1 (B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia), CCRF-CEM (T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia) and Raji (B-cell Burkitt's lymphoma). A total of 247 differentially expressed proteins were identified between the four cell lines. Analysis of the data by principal component analysis identified 22 protein spots (17 different protein species) differentially expressed at more than a 95% variance level between these cell lines. Several of these proteins were differentially expressed in only one cell line: HL-60 (myeloperoxidase, phosphoprotein 32 family member A, ras related protein Rab-11B, protein disulfide-isomerase, ran-specific GTPase-activating protein, nucleophosmin and S-100 calcium binding protein A4), and Raji (ezrin). Several of these proteins were differentially expressed in two  cell lines: Raji and MEC1 (C-1-tetrahydrofolate synthase, elongation factor 2, alpha- and beta-tubulin, transgelin-2 and stathmin). MEC1 and CCRF-CEM (gamma-enolase), HL-60 and CCRF-CEM (ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 N). The differentially expressed proteins identified in these four cell lines correlate with cellular properties and provide insights into the molecular basis of these malignancies."
1456	"Noncoding RNA (ncRNA) transcripts are thought to be involved in human tumorigenesis. We report that a large fraction of genomic ultraconserved regions  (UCRs) encode a particular set of ncRNAs whose expression is altered in human cancers. Genome-wide profiling revealed that UCRs have distinct signatures in human leukemias and carcinomas. UCRs are frequently located at fragile sites and  genomic regions involved in cancers. We identified certain UCRs whose expression  may be regulated by microRNAs abnormally expressed in human chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and we proved that the inhibition of an overexpressed UCR induces apoptosis in colon cancer cells. Our findings argue that ncRNAs and interaction between noncoding genes are involved in tumorigenesis to a greater extent than previously thought."
1457	"IL-21, the most recently discovered member of the IL-2 cytokine family, is an attractive subject for research due to its involvement in experimental models of  autoimmunity, its ability to down-regulate IgE production, and its anti-tumor properties. Its interest for cancer immunotherapy stems from its physiological immune-enhancing functions. These include regulation of T, B and NK cell proliferation, survival, differentiation, and effector functions. IL-21's functional activities partially overlap those of IL-2. Both cytokines display similar structural features and use the common gamma-chain receptor and its downstream signaling pathways. Besides its activities on normal lymphoid cells, IL-21 is an in vitro growth factor for myeloma and acute-T cell leukemia cells, whereas it induces the apoptosis of B-CLL (chronic lymphocytic leukemia) cells. These findings indicate that the IL-21/IL-21R system exerts opposite functions in different lymphoid neoplasias, and suggest its employment in B-CLL therapy. Since IL-2, but not IL-21, is specifically required for the development of regulatory T (Treg) cell immune-suppressive functions, IL-21 may be a new tool for cancer immunotherapy. It is, in fact, a powerful anti-tumor agent in a variety of murine experimental tumor models through its activation of specific or innate immune responses against neoplastic cells. The preliminary data from phase-I clinical studies suggest that the use of IL-21 is feasible and may result in immune-enhancing effects."
1458	"Front-line therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with alkylating agents  is associated with low rates of complete remission and no improvement in overall  survival. The ability of CLL cells to efficiently repair alkylator-induced damage to DNA might explain this lack of response. Novel strategies that inhibit DNA repair, such as combinations of alkylating agents, purine nucleoside analogues, and immunotherapy, have produced durable clinical and molecular remission in both untreated and relapsed CLL. This review evaluates the contribution of DNA repair  processes in the development of resistance to chemotherapy and the impact of therapies that exploit the DNA repair capacity of CLL cells to therapeutic advantage."
1459	"An enhanced understanding of the important pathways governing chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cell survival and the critical role played by the microenvironment in the pathogenesis of the disease has brought new opportunities for drug development in CLL. Several new targets have been identified, and novel agents are under intense investigation in clinical trials. Some of these agents are already demonstrating promising anti-CLL activity on their own, whereas others hold promise in combination with existing therapeutic options. As the use of monoclonal antibodies for chemoimmunotherapy becomes standard clinical practice,  the future holds promise for concurrent targeting of the tumor cell as well as its microenvironment."
1460	"There has been considerable recent progress in understanding of the biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL). These accomplishments have been accompanied by progressive improvement in the management of CLL and its complications. This review summarizes these changes and provides guidelines for a comprehensive approach to patient care."
1462	"Leukemia cutis (LC) represents metastatic spread of aggressive systemic leukemia  to the skin and heralds a poor prognosis. We report a patient with a history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presenting as a recalcitrant nasal cellulitis that proved to be involved by LC on skin biopsy. As demonstrated by this case, LC can  mimic inflammatory dermatoses, resulting in failure of an accurate diagnosis and  consequently inappropriate treatment and delay in optimal therapy. In patients with a history of leukemia, histopathologic examination of refractory conditions  is essential and should be performed early in the treatment strategy."
1463	"BACKGROUND: The success of treatment using monoclonal antibodies in oncology is influenced by, among other factors, the level of target antigen expression on tumor cells. The authors analyzed the intensity of the CD52 antigen expression in patients with chronic lymphoproliferative diseases and compared them with B-lymphocytes of a healthy population and CD34(+) cells in peripheral blood stem  cells (PBSC) grafts. METHODS: Recently diagnosed and previously untreated patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), mantle-cell lymphoma (MCL), or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) were evaluated and compared with control group and CD34(+) cells.  The intensity of CD52 was expressed in molecules of equivalent soluble fluorochrome units (MESF) and antibody-binding capacity (ABC). RESULTS: In the group of patients with B-CLL, the CD52 level on tumor cells (245  x 10(3) MESF; 107 x 10(3) ABC) was significantly lower than on B-lymphocytes of the control group (446 x 10(3) MESF; 194 x 10(3) ABC; P < 0.001) and SLL tumor cells (526 x 10(3) MESF; 229 x 10(3) ABC; P < 0.001). The CD52 antigen was expressed on a majority of CD34(+) cells, but its expression intensity was low (101 x 10(3) MESF; 44 x 10(3) ABC). CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate differences in the intensity of the CD52 antigen expression between B-lymphocytes and tumor lymphocytes of B-CLL patients, and between B-CLL and SLL tumor cells. CD52 antigen is expressed at low level on  CD34(+) cells."
1464	"T cell responses against leukemia-associated antigens have been reported in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, the relentless accumulation of CLL B cells in some patients indicates that anti-tumor immune responses are inefficient. Inhibitory receptors from the Ig-like transcript (ILT) family, such  as ILT3 and ILT4, are crucial to the tolerogenic activity of antigen presenting cells. In this study, we examined the expression of ILT3 on CD5+ B cells obtained from 47 patients with CLL. Using flow cytometry and RT-PCR, we found that B CLL cells from 23 of 47 patients expressed ILT3 protein and mature ILT3 mRNA. ILT3 protein and mRNA were not found in normal B cells obtained from donors without CLL. Expression of ILT4 in normal and B CLL cells showed a pattern similar to ILT3. The frequency of ILT3 positive CLL B cells was higher in patients with lymphoid tissue involvement, suggesting that ILT3 may have prognostic value in CLL. Our findings indicate that expression of ILT3 and ILT4 on CLL B cells represents a phenotypic abnormality that may play a role in tolerization of tumor-specific T cells."
1466	"Multiple myeloma (MM) is a hematologic malignancy characterized by dysregulated proliferation of plasma cells and increased osteoclast activity that results in bone destruction and lytic lesions. Therefore, novel treatment modalities targeting both myeloma cell and osteoclast function may dramatically improve MM patient outcome. As an R-enantiomer of the cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor etodolac, SDX-101 has shown favorable antimyeloma effects. More recently, another structural analogue of etodolac, SDX-308, has displayed in vitro cytotoxic activity on tumor lines and in vivo antitumor efficacy in mice. SDX-308 has high  antimyeloma activity and shows synergism in combination with other drugs for the  treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In addition SDX-308 inhibits osteoclast (OCL) formation resulting in complete abrogation of bone resorption. Therefore, SDX-308 might be an attractive drug for the treatment of diseases with increased OCL activity, such as osteolytic lesions in multiple myeloma and metastatic carcinomas as well as osteoporosis. In the present review, we discuss  SDX-308 as a new therapeutic candidate for the treatment of MM and diseases with  increased osteoclast activity."
1467	"THE AIM of the study was to evaluate the frequency of IGHV3-21 gene usage and its clinical significance for patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in Ukraine.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IGHV) gene  repertoire was studied in 189 CLL patients using reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction and direct sequence of amplified products. RESULTS: IGHV3-21 gene expression was found in 11 cases (5.8%), and its frequency was intermediate between Scandinavian (11.7%) and Mediterranean CLL (2.9%) cohorts. The most of cases (9 of 11) belonged to subset with heterogeneous HCDR3  (heteroHCDR3 subset), and only 2 cases--to subset with classical short ARDANGMDV  motif (homHCDR3 subset). Six IGHV3-21 cases were mutated and 5 cases were unmutated. All unmutated cases (all were from heteroHCDR3 subset) had similarity  of their HCDR3s with previously published sequences. The differences in overall (OS), progression-free (PFS) and treatment-free survival (TFS) for IGHV3-21 positive patients in comparison with CLL patients expressing the other IGHV genes were statistically insignificant. These survival parameters were comparable also  for CLL patients with mutated IGHV3-21 gene usage and expression the others mutated IGHV genes. But remarkable feature of IGHV3-21 expressing patients was high incidence of solid tumors. They have developed in 4 IGHV3-21 positive cases  (36.4%) and in 10 cases with expression of the others IGHV genes (5.6%, p=0.0002). Furthermore, in small group of 6 patients with mutated IGHV3-21 gene expression, 3 patients had solid tumors and one underwent Richter transformation. Unmutated IGHV3-21 gene expressed patients had worse OS and PFS in comparison with CLL patients that expressed the others unmutated IGHV genes. CONCLUSION: Presented data are in agreement with the opinion about negative prognostic significance of IGHV3-21 gene expression regardless its mutation status. IGHV3-21 expression was associated with development of secondary solid tumors. Revealed high level of homology in heteroHDR3s subset might suggest about possible antigenic influence also, in addition to homHCDR3 subset that was proposed earlier."
1472	"In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the acquisition of new genomic aberrations during the disease course (clonal evolution) is thought to be an infrequent phenomenon but comprehensive analyses are limited. Genomic aberrations were analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) at various time points during the disease course of 64 CLL patients. Results were correlated with the mutation status of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variableregion genes (VH) and clinical characteristics. Following a median observation time of 42.3 months (range 23.2-73) after first genetic study, 11 out of the 64 (17%) patients showed clonal evolution with the following newly acquired aberrations: del(17p13) (n=4), del(6q21) (n=3), del(11q23) (n=2), +(8q24) (n=1), and evolution from monoallelic  to biallelic del(13q14) (n=3). Interestingly, clonal evolution only occurred among cases with unmutated VH status. The group with clonal evolution showed a higher rate of progression in Binet stage (82% vs. 28%), a possibly greater need  for treatment (91% vs. 62% previously untreated patients received their first therapy), and a higher hazard risk of death (HR = 2.97, 95% CI 1.40-6.27, p=0.004) in multivariable analysis. The estimated median survival time after the  occurrence of clonal evolution was 21.7 months. Expansion of the clone with del(17p13) was observed in all patients during treatment, indicating in vivo resistance to therapy. In multivariable Andersen-Gill regression analysis, clonal evolution was identified as an independent prognostic factor for overall survival. Clonal evolution only occurred in CLL with unmutated VH indicating to karyotypic instability as a pathomechanism. Acquisition of genomic aberrations was associated with poor outcome based on multivariable analysis. In vivo resistance to chemotherapy of CLL clones with del(17p13) emphasizes the need for  alternative treatment approaches in these patients."
1473	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a high rate of clonal genomic alterations and a low proliferative activity with cell cycle arrest in G(0)/G(1) phase. Recently, centrosome aberrations have been described as a possible cause of chromosomal instability and aneuploidy in many human malignancies. To investigate whether centrosome aberrations do occur in CLL and whether they correlate with common prognostic factors and disease activity, we examined peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 70 patients with previously untreated CLL using an antibody to gamma-tubulin. All 70 CLL samples displayed significantly more cells with centrosome aberrations (median: 26.0%, range 11.0-41.5%) as compared to peripheral blood B lymphocytes from 20 age-matched, healthy individuals (median: 2.0%, range 0-6%; p < 0.001). The extent of centrosome aberrations correlated with the proliferative activity of the CLL cases as measured by lymphocyte doubling time (p = 0.02) as well as with  time to first treatment (p = 0.05). Accordingly, more centrosome aberrations were found in PHA-stimulated T lymphocytes from healthy individuals as well as in B cells from surgically removed tonsil tissue of patients with acute tonsillitis as compared to the peripheral blood B lymphocytes from the control group. In contrast, no correlation was observed between centrosome aberrations and immunoglobulin VH gene mutation status or cytogenetically defined risk groups. These findings suggest that, despite the common observation of most CLL cells remaining in G(0)/G(1) phase, their centrosome replication process is deregulated and correlates to the proliferative activity of CLL cells."
1474	"A 62-year-old man presented with fatigue, pallor and mild weight loss. Laboratory studies showed Hb 7.6 g/dl, Hct 21.8%, WBC 108x10(9)/1, PLT 143x10(9)/1. At morphological examination, circulating cells appeared as 60% blasts and 40% lymphocytes, with smudge cells. A bone marrow aspirate showed infiltration by blasts (50%) and lymphocytes (40%); alpha-naphtyl-acetate esterase was positive in 90% of blasts, while myeloperoxidase was positive in 10%. The immunologic phenotype of blasts was characterized by the co-expression of CD13, CD33, CD14, CD4, CD15, CD64, CD117, HLA-DR, CD11b. Lymphocytes were characterized by a B-CLL  immunophenotype: CD19+, CD5+, CD23+, CD20+(dim), FMC7+(dim), K light chain+(dim). Karyotype was normal and PCR assays for AML-ETO, CBFbeta-MYH11, PML-RARalpha, BCR-ABL and bcl-1/JH translocation were negative. Coexistence of CLL and AML with monoblastic features was diagnosed. Simultaneous appearance of CLL and AML has rarely been described and represents a peculiar biological phenomenon."
1475	"Paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP), also called paraneoplastic autoimmune multiorgan  syndrome, is a rare disorder associated with underlying neoplasia. The common underlying neoplasms include non-Hodgkins lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and Castlemans disease. Though B-cell lymphoma is the most common underlying malignancy, only one case associated with splenic B-cell lymphoma has been recognized. The prognosis of PNP is very poor, and PNP-associated bronchiolitis obliterans (BO) is not uncommon. Herein, we report a 44-year-old woman who initially presented with multiple oral ulcers, conjunctivitis, and numerous cutaneous blisters. Serial workup established the diagnosis of PNP and revealed an underlying splenic B-cell lymphoma. Although the mucocutaneous lesions gradually healed after splenectomy and chemotherapy, deteriorating respiratory function developed 7 months later with pathologically proven BO. She finally succumbed to respiratory failure 12 months after presentation despite intensive respiratory care."
1476	"To develop a model incorporating relevant prognostic biomarkers for untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients, we re-analyzed the raw data from four published gene expression profiling studies. We selected 88 candidate biomarkers  linked to immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region gene (IgV(H)) mutation status and produced a reliable and reproducible microfluidics quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction array. We applied this array to a training set of 29 purified samples from previously untreated patients. In an unsupervised analysis, the samples clustered into two groups. Using a cutoff point of 2% homology to the germline IgV(H) sequence, one group contained all 14 IgV(H)-unmutated samples; the other contained all 15 mutated samples. We confirmed the differential expression of 37 of the candidate biomarkers using two-sample t-tests. Next, we constructed 16 different models to predict IgV(H) mutation status and evaluated their performance on an independent test set of 20  new samples. Nine models correctly classified 11 of 11 IgV(H)-mutated cases and eight of nine IgV(H)-unmutated cases, with some models using three to seven genes. Thus, we can classify cases with 95% accuracy based on the expression of as few as three genes."
1480	"Of 166 hairy cell leukemia (HCL) patients, 81 had kappa and 80 had lambda expression. IGKV-J and IGLV-J rearrangement structure was analyzed in 21 HCL patients (11 kappa, 10 lambda). For kappa, IGKV1-5 was most frequent, and the KJ2 gene was over-utilized. For lambda HCL, LJ3 was over-utilized compared to normal. This study significantly adds to previous studies of light chain usage in HCL and is the first to report light chain gene usage. In HCL, we confirm the lack of kappa predominance observed in normal lymphocytes and in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and note over-representation of several light chain genes."
1481	"The level of somatic point mutation in immunoglobulin genes is an important prognostic indicator for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Mutation analysis presently focuses solely upon the heavy chain IGHV gene, however mutation is a stochastic process that also targets IGHD and IGHJ genes. Here, we evaluate the completeness and reliability of the reported IGHJ gene repertoire, and demonstrate the likely consequences of the inclusion of IGHD and  IGHJ mutations in CLL analysis, using a dataset of 607 sequences. Inclusion of these mutations would lead to the re-classification of many sequences, which should significantly improve the prognostic value of mutation analysis."
1482	"Accumulation of neoplastic cells in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is thought to be due to intrinsic defects in the apoptotic machinery of the leukemic cells or to an altered, survival-stimulating microenvironment in vivo. Despite their long survival in vivo, B-CLL cells undergo rapid spontaneous apoptosis ex vivo. To maintain survival in vitro, we established a coculture system using the human bone marrow-derived stromal cell line HS-5. The microenvironment in these cocultures lead to B-CLL cell survival for at least several months and therefore provided a tool for valid in vitro analysis, mimicking the in vivo situation. Although primary B lymphocytes are notoriously resistant to most gene transfer techniques, we achieved high transfection efficiency and cell viability in this coculture system by using a nucleofection-based strategy. Surprisingly, the introduction of circular plasmid  DNA into B cells and B-CLL cells induced rapid apoptosis, which was independent of the type of transgene used, but dependent on the DNA concentration. However, transfection of these cells with mRNA was highly efficient and resulted in sustained cell viability and potent transgene expression. The described procedure represents a new approach to study gene function in primary B cells and B-CLL cells."
1483	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most frequent form of adult leukemia in Western countries, is characterized by a highly variable clinical course. Expression profiling of a series of 160 CLL patients allowed interrogating the genes presumably playing a role in pathogenesis, relating the expression of functionally relevant signatures with the time to treatment. First, we identified genes relevant to the biology and prognosis of CLL to build a CLL disease-specific oligonucleotide microarray. Second, we hybridized a training series on the CLL-specific chip, generating a biology-based predictive model. Finally, this model was validated in a new CLL series. Clinical variability in CLL is related with the expression of two gene clusters, associated with B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation,  including nuclear factor-kappaB1 (NF-kappaB1). The expression of these clusters identifies three risk-score groups with treatment-free survival probabilities at  5 years of 83, 50 and 17%. This molecular predictor can be applied to early clinical stages of CLL. This signature is related to immunoglobulin variable region somatic hypermutation and surrogate markers. There is a molecular heterogeneity in CLL, dependent on the expression of genes defining BCR and MAPK/NF-kappaB clusters, which can be used to predict time to treatment in early  clinical stages."
1484	"The management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has historically relied on 'watchful waiting' and palliative approaches to therapy. However, the course of disease is highly variable and a substantial proportion of patients with early-stage CLL develop rapidly progressive disease requiring therapy. In recent  decades, numerous clinical and biological prognostic markers that are predictive  of decreased survival outcomes, disease progression and/or resistance to therapy, and that may play a role in defining the subgroups of patients with 'high-risk' CLL have been identified. At the same time, highly effective treatment modalities have become available with the advent of chemoimmunotherapy combinations and allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Thus, we are approaching an era when patients with CLL may potentially benefit from individualized risk assessments based on prognostic markers and when specific therapies may be offered to the subgroup of patients with high-risk disease. This review provides a brief overview of newer biological prognostic markers, discusses the challenges associated with identifying the subgroup of patients with high-risk CLL and further aims to provide recommendations on how prognostic markers may be used to  assess high-risk subgroups in different clinical situations in CLL."
1486	"Synchronous composite tumors have been described but are uncommon. Moreover, simultaneous occurrence of synchronous tumors in the same tissue or organ is even less common. We report a case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma and malignant melanoma (MM) occurring synchronously in the same lymph node. Several cases of an association between cutaneous malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders have been reported. Some of which included CLL  and MM, occurring in the same patient often CLL after MM. The risk of having CLL  after MM has been reported to be increased. Various genetic and environmental etiologies have been postulated, but have as yet not been proven. To our knowledge this is the first time that synchronous occurrence of these two malignant processes in the same tissue is described. In this case it is important that the melanoma was recognized in the excised lymph node, as this finding had much more critical treatment and long term survival consequences."
1487	"Type 4 cyclic AMP (cAMP) phosphodiesterase (PDE4) inhibitors, a class of compounds in clinical development that activate cAMP-mediated signaling by inhibiting cAMP catabolism, offer a feasible means by which to potentiate glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis in lymphoid malignancies such as B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In this study, we show that PDE4 inhibitors up-regulate glucocorticoid receptor (GRalpha) transcript levels in B-CLL cells but not T-CLL cells or Sezary cells or normal circulating T cells, B cells, monocytes, or neutrophils. Because GRalpha transcript half-life does not vary in  CLL cells treated with the prototypic PDE4 inhibitor rolipram, the 4-fold increase in GRalpha mRNA levels observed within 4 h of rolipram treatment seems to result from an increase in GRalpha transcription. Rolipram treatment increases levels of transcripts derived from the 1A3 promoter to a greater extent than the  1B promoter. Treatment of B-CLL cells with two other PDE4 inhibitors currently in clinical development also augments GR transcript levels and glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis. Washout studies show that simultaneous treatment with both drug classes irreversibly augments apoptosis over the same time frame that GR up-regulation occurs. Although treatment of B-CLL cells with glucocorticoids reduces basal GRalpha transcript levels in a dose-related manner, cotreatment with rolipram maintained GRalpha transcript levels above baseline. Our results suggest that as a result of their unusual sensitivity to PDE4 inhibitor-mediated up-regulation of GRalpha expression, treatment of B-CLL patients with combined PDE4 inhibitor/glucocorticoid therapy may be of therapeutic benefit in this disease."
1488	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a malignant disease of small mature lymphocytes. Previous studies have shown that CLL B lymphocytes express relatively large amounts of CD74 mRNA relative to normal B cells. In the present  study, we analyzed the molecular mechanism regulated by CD74 in B-CLL cells. The  results presented here show that activation of cell-surface CD74, expressed at high levels from an early stage of the disease by its natural ligand, macrophage  migration-inhibition factor (MIF), initiates a signaling cascade that contributes to tumor progression. This pathway induces NF-kappaB activation, resulting in the secretion of IL-8 which, in turn, promotes cell survival. Inhibition of this pathway leads to decreased cell survival. These findings could form the basis of  unique therapeutic strategies aimed at blocking the CD74-induced, IL-8- dependent survival pathway."
1489	"BACKGROUND: The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that inactivation of virtually any component within the pathway containing the BRCA1 and BRCA2 proteins would increase the risks for lymphomas and leukemias. In people who do not have BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutations, the encoded proteins prevent breast/ovarian cancer. However BRCA1 and BRCA2 proteins have multiple functions including participating in a pathway that mediates repair of DNA double strand breaks by error-free methods. Inactivation of BRCA1, BRCA2 or any other critical protein within this "BRCA pathway" due to a gene mutation should inactivate this error-free repair process. DNA fragments produced by double strand breaks are then left to non-specific processes that rejoin them without regard for preserving normal gene regulation or function, so rearrangements of DNA segments are more likely. These kinds of rearrangements are typically associated with some lymphomas and leukemias. METHODS: Literature searches produced about 2500 epidemiology and basic science articles related to the BRCA pathway. These articles were reviewed and copied to  a database to facilitate access. Meta-analyses of statistical information compared risks for hematologic cancers vs. mutations for the components in a model pathway containing BRCA1/2 gene products. RESULTS: Deleterious mutations of genes encoding proteins virtually anywhere within the BRCA pathway increased risks up to nearly 2000 fold for certain leukemias and lymphomas. Cancers with large increases in risk included mantle cell lymphoma, acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and prolymphocytic leukemia. Mantle cell lymphoma is defined by a characteristic rearrangement of DNA fragments interchanged between chromosomes 11 and 14. DNA translocations or rearrangements also occur in significant percentages of the other cancers. CONCLUSION: An important function of the BRCA pathway is to prevent a subgroup of human leukemias and lymphomas that may involve non-random, characteristic gene rearrangements. Here, the genetic defect in BRCA pathway deficiencies is a chromosomal misrepair syndrome that may facilitate this subgroup of somatic cancers. Inactivation of a single gene within the pathway can increase risks for  multiple cancers and inactivation of a different gene in the same pathway may have similar effects. The results presented here may have clinical implications for surveillance and therapy."
1490	"The finding of monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) raises questions on the nature of clonal cell expansion and its risk of progression. We identified and characterized 7 cases of clinically benign clonal B-cell lymphocytosis. The clonal lymphocytes were clearly of CD5- and non-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) phenotype. All cases had mild to moderate absolute lymphocytosis. The clonal population accounted for 95% to 99% of B cells. For a follow-up period of  4 to 16 years, clonal lymphocytosis was persistent but virtually not progressing. Patients' conditions remained clinically stable and asymptomatic. The clonal populations had somatic hypermutations of the VH gene in 6 cases, indicating a germinal center or post-germinal center B-lymphocyte origin. Clonal cytogenetic aberrations were found in 5 of 6 cases, with 2 clones bearing isochromosome 17q that resulted in loss of p53 and 2 other clones with 7q abnormalities. By the presence of absolute lymphocytosis, this series differs from MBL cases identified by sensitive flow cytometry in normal populations. The phenotypic profiles are distinct from that of benign CLL. We suggest these CD5-B-cell lymphocytosis cases may represent an intermediate condition between covert clonal expansions and overt malignancy."
1491	"Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is an alternative to conventional chromosome analysis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. We  analyzed 172 samples from 136 possible CLL cases using a FISH panel. Reflex testing with probes to CCND1, BCL2, BCL3, BCL11A, c-MYC, MALT1, and a break-apart immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) probe was done if more than 2 signals for 14q32  occurred. For 111 cases, there were sufficient data for analysis. Of 111 cases, 81 (72.9%) had 1 or more genetic abnormalities. The most frequent abnormality was 13q-, followed by trisomy 12, 11q-, and 17p-. In 13 cases, there were IGH abnormalities. Two cases with CCND1/IGH fusion were reclassified as mantle cell lymphoma. Four CLL cases had IGH fusion with BCL2, BCL3 (2 cases), and BCL11A; no fusion partner was detected in 7 cases. Morphologic features were atypical for CLL in 2 cases with IGH fusion (BCL11A and BCL3). The FISH CLL panel is useful to identify prognostic aberrations and to clarify diagnosis in cases with unusual morphologic features."
1492	"The etiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is poorly understood and its course is highly variable. Somatic hypermutation (SHM) of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgV(H)) gene and ZAP70 protein expression have been reported as prognostic indicators. However, these assays are not widely available and their concordance is imperfect. Thus a need exists to identify additional molecular determinants of CLL. The Igbeta (CD79b) subunit of the B cell antigen receptor is essential for B lymphocyte function. Defects in Igbeta expression are implicated  in CLL pathogenesis. We have analyzed Igbeta mRNA expression in CLL cells in 40 consecutive patient samples. About 75% of the samples showed the expected decrease of Igbeta surface staining. Igbeta mRNA levels covered a wider range, did not correlate with Igbeta surface staining, but clearly distinguished the normal and CLL lymphocyte populations. Remarkably, Igbeta mRNA levels correlated  strongly with SHM; Igbeta mRNA levels in CLL cells were significantly higher in patients with an unmutated IgV(H) gene when compared with those in whom IgV(H) was hypermutated (P = 0.008). In contrast, no correlation was observed between Igbeta mRNA levels and ZAP70 expression. Multiple parameters abstracted from chart reviews were used to estimate severity of CLL in each case. While severity  correlated strongly with ZAP70 staining, and to a lesser extent with SHM status,  there was no correlation with Igbeta mRNA levels. These data establish a strong linkage between Igbeta mRNA expression and SHM in CLL and highlight the complex relationships between biochemical parameters and clinical status in this disease."
1493	"PURPOSE: To present a case of T-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (T-CLL) manifesting as an intraocular lymphoma. DESIGN: Interventional case report. METHODS: We performed a vitreous biopsy in a 67-year-old woman who presented with blurred vision and vitreous cellular infiltration. Morphologic, immunohistochemical, flow cytometry, and molecular analysis by polymerase chain reaction of vitreous fluid, peripheral blood, bone marrow aspirate, and biopsy were performed. RESULTS: Cytofluorographic and molecular analysis of vitreous cells demonstrated  a monoclonal T-cell population consistent with a T-cell intraocular lymphoma. Systemic evaluation established diagnosis of T-cell CLL. CONCLUSION: T-CLL is a rare disease with an aggressive clinical course. We present a case of T-cell intraocular lymphoma as the initial manifestation of an  otherwise asymptomatic T-CLL."
1495	"PURPOSE: Therapeutic antibodies have improved the outcome for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We conducted a phase 1, dose escalation and schedule optimization study of the primatized anti-CD23 antibody, lumiliximab, in patients with previously treated and refractory CLL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Forty-six patients were assigned sequentially to cohorts 1 through 6 and received lumiliximab at 125, 250, or 375 mg/m(2) weekly for 4 weeks; 500 mg/m(2) weekly for 4 weeks [500(A)]; 500 mg/m(2) thrice during week 1  then 500 mg/m(2) weekly for the next 3 weeks [500(B)]; or 500 mg/m(2) thrice a week for 4 weeks [500(C)], respectively. RESULTS: The median age was 62 years (range, 47-80), and the median number of prior regimens was four (range, 1-13). No partial or complete responses were observed. Toxicity was limited and unrelated to dose. The pharmacokinetics of lumiliximab was similar to other IgG(1) monoclonal antibodies with accumulation at doses > or =250 mg/m(2) and a median terminal half-life of 7 days. Pharmacodynamic studies showed dose-dependent increases in soluble CD23, but no down-regulation of CD23 antigen. Saturation of CD23 receptors occurred at 250 mg/m(2) and was maintained for > or =1 week following completion of therapy at >  or =375 mg/m(2). CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with lumiliximab seemed to be well tolerated and to have clinical activity in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL."
1496	"The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society develops and distributes both detailed and easy-to-read booklets intended to help patients and caregivers communicate with healthcare providers about their treatment and support needs. The easy-to-read booklets initially were developed for newly diagnosed patients; however, the society has learned that all patients with cancer are likely to benefit from the  information at some point in their journeys. To date, the society has developed easy-to-read booklets about acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, lymphomas,  myeloma, and coping with blood cancer. All booklets are free to patients, healthcare providers, and the general public, and most titles are available in Spanish-language versions. They can be ordered through the society's Information  Resource Center (800-955-4572, infocenter@lls.org, or www.lls.org) or its 68 chapters. This article focuses on the development of the booklet Myeloma: A Guide for Patients and Caregivers and includes a handout based on its content."
1497	"Several associations between hematological malignancies and autoimmunity directed against hematopoietic cells exist. Antibody mediated elimination of mature blood  cells such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) and immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) are frequent complications of non-Hodgkin lymphomas, most prominently chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Autoimmunity directed against hematopoietic precursor cells is the hallmark of aplastic anemia, but many features of this disease are shared by two related disorders, paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria  (PNH) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). While the clinical associations between hematological malignancy and autoimmunity have been described many decades ago, only in the last several years have the common pathogenetic mechanisms been elucidated. We summarize the recent progress made in understanding how hematological malignancy gives rise to autoimmunity directed against blood cells  and vice versa, and illustrate parallels in the etiology of malignant and autoimmune hematological disorders. Specifically, recent progress in the recognition of the association of lymphoproliferative disorders and autoimmunity  against mature blood cells, and common pathogenetic background of aplastic anemia, paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, and myelodysplastic syndrome are discussed."
1498	"OBJECTIVES: The aim of our study was to determine the feasibility, effectiveness  and toxicity of combined regimens consisting of rituximab and cladribine (2-CdA)  (RC) and RC plus cyclophosphamide (RCC) in the treatment of patients with recurrent or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: The RC regimen consisted of rituximab given on day 1 and 2-CdA (days 2-6). The RCC protocol included rituximab (day 1), 2-CdA (days 2-4) and cyclophosphamide given on days 2-4. The courses were re-administered at time intervals of 4 weeks or longer if severe myelosuppression occurred. RESULTS: Forty-six patients with CLL entered the study. Eighteen patients were treated with RC and 28 with RCC regimen. The median number of courses administered were three cycles (range 1-6). Three (6.5%) patients (95% CI: 1-14%) achieved a complete response and 31 (67%) patients (95% CI: 50-83%) a partial response. According to the particular regimen, the overall response rate was obtained in 12 (67%) patients treated with RC (95% CI: 45-89%) and in 22 patients (78%) treated with RCC (95% CI: 62-93%). The median progression free survival of  responders to RC/RCC regimens was 12 months (range 4-46). Hypersensitivity to rituximab occurred in 16 (33%) patients, mostly during the first infusion of the  drug. Grade 3/4 neutropenia was seen in six (13%) patients, grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia in three (9%) patients and grade 3/4 infections were observed in ten (28%) patients. CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that both RC and RCC regimens are feasible in heavily pretreated patients with CLL, showing also distinct therapeutic activity  and relatively low toxicity, even in patients previously treated with cladribine-based protocols."
1499	"Angiogenesis is an important event in the survival and progression of solid tumors. The angiogenic status and the exact role of the angiogenic cytokines in lymphoid leukemia has not been fully elucidated. We have investigated the profile of the systemic components of angiogenic regulation in B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), namely vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), endostatin and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In B-ALL patients, sVEGF, and MMP-9 were significantly lower than control levels at diagnosis (p < 0.001) and increased to near control levels in remission (p>0.05). Both serum TNF-alpha and  endostatin levels showed no significant difference at diagnosis (p>0.05) and in remission (p>0.05) compared to control levels. VEGF, TNF-alpha, MMP-9 and endostatin levels were not significantly correlated with peripheral white cell count or bone marrow blast cell count, but were positively correlated with platelet count. In B-CLL patients, serum VEGF, MMP-9 and TNF-alpha were significantly higher (p < 0.001 = 0.009, 0.007, respectively) and decreased to near control levels in remission (p>0.05 for all). Serum endostatin levels showed no significant difference at diagnosis and in remission compared to control levels (p>0.05). A significant positive correlation between VEGF, TNF-alpha, MMP-9 and peripheral white cell counts, bone marrow lymphocytic count and platelets count were found. In conclusion, our data suggest that the driving forces of angiogenic factors (VEGF, TNF-alpha and MMP-9) in adult B-ALL appears different from that in B-CLL patients."
1500	"Paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP) is a life-threatening autoimmune blistering skin disease. Clinically, it is characterized by severe mucosal erosions and various cutaneous lesions associated with lymphoproliferative neoplasmas. Suprabasal acantholysis and clefts with scattered necrotic keratinocytes are the unique histopathological features. PNP patient sera recognize multiple antigens, which have been identified as the plakin protein family that includes desmoplakin, bullous pemphigoid antigen I (BPAG1), envoplakin and periplakin, and desmogleins  1 and 3. Castleman's tumor, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, thymoma, follicular dendritic cell sarcoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are the commonly associated neoplasmas in PNP. We have also demonstrated that the autoantibodies reacting to  epidermal proteins are directly produced by the cells in the associated tumors. Bronchiolitis obliterans is frequently found in PNP and may cause respiratory failure and death. In our experience, the early detection and removal of the tumor and i.v. administration of immunoglobulin are critical for the treatment of PNP."
1504	"There might be rheumatic manifestations of malignant diseases, especially those of the hematological type. Until now, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been reported on only very few occasions. Here, we present our patient with Rai stage  II CLL who came to us with constitutional symptoms. She turned out to have hematuria with dysmorphic erythrocytes and developed hemoptysis. She had pulmonary-renal syndrome and was diagnosed with p-ANCA positive microscopic polyangiitis. She is currently using prednisolone and cyclophosphamide and undergoing regular hemodialysis. Constitutional symptoms in patients with hematological malignancies should make the physicians consider systemic vasculitis after exclusion of disease-related complications."
1505	"We investigated if deguelin, a naturally occurring rotenoid, was able to inhibit  nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB)-binding protein (IkappaBalpha) expression and  to induce apoptosis in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells in vitro. Deguelin-induced cell death in the majority of B-CLL cells and was found to be more toxic toward B-CLL cells than to the normal mononuclear or B-cells, suggesting selectivity towards the malignant cells. Deguelin was found to reduce  IkappaBalpha protein expression, and thus interacts with the NFkappaB pathway. The induced apoptosis was characterized by processing of caspase-9 and -3 and poly-(ADP)-ribose-polymerase cleavage. Exposure of B-CLL cells to deguelin resulted in Bcl2-associated protein (Bax) conformational changes and downregulation of the key survival protein myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1 (Mcl-1), which is associated with response to treatment in B-CLL patients. Deguelin retained its ability to induce apoptosis in B-CLL cells in the presence  of interleukin-4, a pro-survival cytokine in B-CLL, and when cultured with 50% human serum. These data indicate that deguelin is able to induce apoptosis in B-CLL cells in the presence of pro-survival signals and thus merits further investigation for clinical application either as a single agent or in combination with other anticancer agents."
1506	"Chromosomal translocations represent an important prognostic indicator in B-cell  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). However, their value had been neither determined in homogeneously treated patients nor compared to that of IgV(H) mutational status. Sixty-five B-CLL patients were investigated using cytogenetics, interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), analysis of IgV(H) and of TP53 mutational status before treatment with 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CdA). Translocations (n=45) were detected in 42% of the patients, including both balanced (n=12) and unbalanced (n=33) types. IgV(H)  was mutated in 43% of the patients. Patients with translocations were more heavily pretreated (P=0.05), presented with more complex karyotypes (P<0.001), 17p abnormalities and TP53 mutations, and had a higher failure rate (59 vs 21% in patients without translocations, P=0.004). Patients with unbalanced translocations displayed a shorter median treatment-free survival (TFS, 6.9 vs 35.9 months, log rank 22.72, P<0.001) and overall survival (OS, 13.0 vs 68.0 months, log rank 16.51, P<0.001), as compared to patients without translocation.  In multivariate analysis, unbalanced translocations were independently associated with therapeutic failure, short TFS and short OS. IgV(H) mutational status was independently associated with risk of failure and TFS, but not OS. In B-CLL patients treated with CdA, translocations are strong predictors of outcome."
1507	"Several histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), which have recently entered early clinical trials, exert their anticancer activity in part through the induction of apoptosis although the precise mechanism of this induction is not known. Induction of apoptosis by structurally diverse HDACi in primary cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and different leukemic cell lines was mediated by the Bcl-2 regulated intrinsic pathway and demonstrated a requirement for de novo protein synthesis. A marked time-dependent induction of the pro-apoptotic BH3-only proteins, Bim, Noxa and Bmf was observed, which preceded the induction of apoptosis. A key role for both Bim and Noxa was proposed in HDACi-mediated apoptosis based on our findings that siRNA for Bim and Noxa but not Bmf largely prevented the HDACi-induced loss in mitochondrial membrane potential, caspase processing and phosphatidylserine externalization. Noxa, induced by HDACi, in CLL cells and tumor cell lines, bound extensively to Mcl-1, a major anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family member present in CLL cells. Our data  strongly suggests that HDACi induce apoptosis primarily through inactivation of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members by increases in Bim and Noxa and highlights these increases as a potential clinical target for CLL/lymphoma therapy."
1510	"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia is a common and often incurable lymphoproliferative  disorder. Purine nucleoside analogues, and more recently monoclonal antibodies, have increased the potential for obtaining complete or even molecular remissions. Despite these advances, disease recurrence and relapse remain the major concern.  Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is now regularly being considered in this patient population. Attempts at autologous transplantation have not shown additional benefit in advanced refractory disease. However, recent reports show that allogeneic transplantation may represent a chance for cure. This benefit must be balanced with the risk of transplant related mortality and graft-versus-host-disease. Current studies suggest that the use of non-myeloablative transplantation may provide durable disease control without the toxicity of conventional transplants. This review will focus on the role of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in CLL."
1513	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is commonly defined as a disease of failed apoptosis of B cells and remains an incurable disease. The mechanism of resistance to apoptosis in CLL is complex and influenced by numerous factors, including nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB)-mediated expression of antiapoptotic molecules. Recent evidence indicates that glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) positively regulates NFkappaB-mediated gene transcription and cell survival. Using malignant B cells collected from patients with CLL, we find that  both GSK-3beta and NFkappaB accumulate in the nucleus of CLL B cells, and pharmacologic inhibition of GSK-3 results in decreased expression of two NFkappaB target genes Bcl-2 and XIAP and a subsequent increase in CLL B-cell apoptosis ex  vivo. Furthermore, we observed that inhibition of GSK-3 leads to a decrease in NFkappaB-mediated gene transcription but does not affect the nuclear accumulation of NFkappaB in CLL B cells. Last, using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we show that GSK-3 inhibition abrogates NFkappaB binding to its target gene promoters (XIAP, Bcl-2), in part through epigenetic modification of histones. Our results establish that inhibition of GSK-3 abrogates NFkappaB binding to its target gene  promoters through an epigenetic mechanism, enhances apoptosis in CLL B cells ex vivo and identifies GSK-3 as a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of CLL."
1515	"OBJECTIVE: CLL (Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia) is the most common form of leukemia in the western world and because of prolonged survival of patients, the prevalence is high. Chemotherapy is usually not indicated in early and stable disease and using Chlorambucil with or without steroids has been the drug of choice in the treatment of CLL for many years . Clinical studies have shown that  using Fludarabin can cause a complete response in significant number of untreated and/or previously treated CLL patients. The aim of this study is evaluating of CLL patients and determining the effects of treatment with Fludarabin. METHODS: A retrospective (descriptive/cross sectional) study of CLL patients who  admitted to Hematology and Oncology Research Center of Tabriz university of Medical Sciences, between 1995-2005 was made and 126 patients enrolled. Collection of data was carried out according to special questionnaire and response to Fludarabin was analyzed by SPSS 11 software. RESULTS: The patients mean age of diagnosis was 63.7 years (SD=8.9), 69.8% were males. Illness and fatigue were the commonest presenting symptoms in 54% and lymphadenopathy was the most common clinical sign in 88.9%. Most of the patients  were in stage C in Binet system (52.4%) and/or stage IV in Rai system (44.4%). Chemotherapy with chlorambucil and Prednisolone was the most common regimen used  (60.3%) and 49.2% of patients were in partial remission with this treatment. Forty two patients treated with Fludarabin and 50% were in partial remission, 35% in static disease, 10% in progressive disease and 5% in complete remission (P=0.053). CONCLUSION: The median survival with Fludarabin was 43.9 months (SD=27.2) and in  the case of Chlorambucil+Prednisolone and CVP or Chop it was 45 months (SD=26.5)  and 50 months (SD=32.2), respectively (P>0.05). P value in the relationship with  survival and response to Fludarabin was more than 0.05. Above all, Fludarabin is  the choice treatment as first and second line therapy, as well as for patients who have failed therapy with standard regimens."
1516	"The beneficial effect of lycopene from tomatoes on a variety of chronic diseases  and particularly its association with decreased incidence of prostate and breast  cancer seems to be well established. The aim of the study was to examine its anti-proliferative and apoptotic effect on other malignant cell lines. Cells of the following lines were incubated with 1.0, 2.0, and 4.0microM of lycopene: human colon carcinoma (HuCC), B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (EHEB), human erythroleukemia (K562) and Raji, a prototype of Burkitt lymphoma cell line. The results showed that lycopene exerted a significant dose-dependent effect on the proliferation capacity of K562, Raji and HuCC lines, whereas this effect was observed in EHEB cells only with the highest dose used in the study. Increased apoptotic rate was found after incubation of HuCC cells with 2.0 and 4.0microM of lycopene and in Raji cells following incubation with 2.0microM. The findings point out that the anti-proliferative effect of lycopene on tumor cells and its effect on the apoptotic rate depends on its dosage and on the type of the malignant cells."
1517	"Collision tumors are rare clinical entities in which two histologically distinct  tumor types show involvement in the same site. The occurrence of these tumors in  the breast is extremely rare. Here, we present a case of a patient with both invasive ductal carcinoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the breast. Wide excision with sentinel lymph node biopsy revealed palpably abnormal lymph nodes negative for breast carcinoma on frozen section. Histopathological examination of these lymph nodes showed extensive involvement by lymphoma and review of the breast specimen demonstrated the same lymphoma at the periphery of the ductal carcinoma. We review the literature and discuss possible etiologies for the dual  presentation of both cancers."
1519	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Multiple myeloma and Waldenström macroglobulinemia are incurable hematologic malignancies with similar clinical phenotypes characterized by over-production of monoclonal immunoglobulins. Translocations into the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus and aneuploidy are nearly universal in multiple  myeloma, whereas Waldenström macroglobulinemia generally does not harbor translocations. Deletion of 6q is identified in 50% of patients with Waldenström  macroglobulinemia, however. The genetic abnormalities in multiple myeloma and Waldenström macroglobulinemia have implications for disease progression, and the  subsequent proteomic expression associated with each disease influences therapeutic decisions. RECENT FINDINGS: Gene expression profiling in these hematologic malignancies demonstrated distinct differences in mRNA expression patterns. Following profiling, Waldenström macroglobulinemia samples clustered with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and normal B-cell samples. Profiling performed after separation of Waldenström macroglobulinemia samples into populations with plasma  cell or B-cell morphology revealed that plasma cell Waldenström macroglobulinemia samples most closely resembled multiple myeloma samples rather than chronic lymphocytic leukemia or normal control samples. SUMMARY: Diverse genetic abnormalities have been identified in these hematologic  malignancies, although they have similar clinical features. Gene expression profiling has elucidated the impact of genetic abnormalities. Furthermore, it may be used to identify a specific pathway for therapeutic targeting, such as interleukin-6 in Waldenström macroglobulinemia."
1520	"Smoking is not considered a risk factor for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) yet increased lung cancer risk has been reported for these patients. Little data  exist on the temporal variation in lung cancer risk after CLL, or its histological composition. We investigated the occurrence of second cancers in a large cohort of CLL patients with particular emphasis on lung cancer and its major subtypes. We followed all patients diagnosed with CLL in Denmark in the period 1943-2003 (n = 12,373) for the occurrence of second cancers. The relative  risk was expressed as the standardized incidence ratio (SIR), i.e. the ratio of observed to expected number of cancers, based on incidence rates for the Danish population. During follow-up 1,105 cancers occurred among the CLL patients (SIR = 1.59 (95% CI 1.50-1.69)). SIR for all cancers combined remained elevated more than 10 years after CLL (SIR = 1.80 (1.56-2.08)). Lung cancer occurred in 141 patients (SIR = 1.61 (1.37-1.90)). The relative risk of lung cancer did not vary  by gender, or time of follow-up, but was higher in younger (SIR(<60 years) = 2.22 (1.62-3.06)) than in older (SIR(70-79 years) = 1.21 (0.88-1.68)) age-groups. Elevated risks were observed for adenocarcinoma (SIR = 2.20 (1.57-3.08)) and squamous cell carcinoma (SIR = 1.52 (1.06-2.17)) of the lung. We speculate that shared genetic risk factors may explain the accumulation of lung and other cancers in CLL patients."
1521	"A pan-virus DNA microarray (Virochip) was used to detect a human metapneumovirus  (hMPV) strain associated with a critical respiratory tract infection in an elderly adult with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This infection had previously eluded diagnosis despite extensive microbiological testing for possible etiologic agents. The patient's hMPV strain did not grow in viral culture, and only one of  five specific reverse transcription-PCR assays for hMPV was positive."
1522	"Patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have an increased risk of second malignancy and may develop diffuse large-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (DLCL) also known as Richter's syndrome (RS). Only seven cases of isolated brain  RS without evidence of systemic lymphoma have been reported to date. We describe  a case of isolated DLCL of the brain in a 58-year-old female patient with a 3 year history of B-cell CLL. The patient presented with falls due to left leg paresis and showed non-specific neuroimaging findings. Brain biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of DLCL and CLL restaging failed to demonstrate evidence of RS outside  the CNS. The patient was treated with whole brain radiation therapy and was discharged 4 weeks later on weekly rituximab infusions. This report extends the previous experience by providing a detailed clinical, neuroradiological and pathological description of isolated RS of the brain. Early identification and timely CNS directed treatment may alter morbidity and positively influence quality of life."
1523	"The BIOMED-2 PCR-based immunoglobulin gene rearrangement assays have quickly become the most commonly used laboratory method for detection of B-cell clonality. Therefore, the reliability of these assays under various conditions has become increasingly important. When studying paired cases of follicular lymphoma (FL) from individual patients, we used these assays to assess clonality  in 40 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) specimens from 19 patients diagnosed with FL. The assays of IGH rearrangement failed to give a clonal result in 26/40 (65%) specimens, while the IGK assays failed in only 3/40 (8%) specimens. The high failure rate of the IGH assays for this set of FFPE lymphomas cannot be explained by systematic problems with DNA extraction or amplification because the same IGH assays resulted in a low failure rate (3/32, 9%) for FFPE small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia specimens and for fresh frozen FL specimens (1/6, 17%). Furthermore, in a second validation set of 13 FFPE follicular lymphoma the failure rate was 9/13 (69%). Therefore, the BIOMED-2 IGH assay did not perform well on FFPE follicular lymphoma specimens, and the IGK assay may be superior for assessing clonality when no fresh/frozen tissue is available."
1524	"A possible role for DNA mismatch repair defects and microsatellite instability (MSI) in the pathogenesis of a number of B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders has recently been debated. To gain further insight into the impact of MSI on B-CLL, we evaluated samples from a series of 982 patients using the mono-satellite markers BAT25 and BAT26, which are highly sensitive in demonstrating classical mismatch repair (MMR) deficiency. Only 1% of cases displayed MSI and this was not correlated with stage of disease or family history of B-CLL. A sub-polymorphic germline variant of BAT25 was identified in one familial case, which was also detected in the patient's affected brother. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that MSI does not have a prominent role in the pathogenesis of B-CLL."
1525	"A novel bone biopsy technique was used to generate a robust stromal cell system to study how stroma modulates CLL B-cell apoptosis and how the leukemic cell-stromal interaction influences secretion of vascular factors. Marrow stromal elements (MSE) rescued CLL B-cells from both spontaneous and drug induced apoptosis, partly due to soluble factors. When CLL B-cells were added to the MSE  cultures, a dramatic increase in the secretion of basic fibroblast growth factor  and decrease in the secretion of thrombospondin was observed. These results indicate the interaction between CLL B-cells and marrow stromal elements regulates angiogenic switching and may be linked to disease progression."
1527	"The biologic and pathologic features of B-cell malignancies bearing a translocation t(14;19)(q32;q13) leading to a fusion of IGH and BCL3 are still poorly described. Herein we report the results of a comprehensive cytogenetic, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), molecular and histopathological survey of a large series of B-cell malignancies with t(14;19) or variant translocations. A total of 56 B-cell malignancies with a FISH-proven BCL3 involvement were identified with the translocation partners being IGH (n=51), IGL (n=2), IGK (n=2) and a non-IG locus (n=1). Hierarchical clustering of chromosomal changes associated with the t(14;19) indicated the presence of two different groups of IG/BCL3-positive lymphatic neoplasias. The first group included 26 B-cell malignancies of various histologic subtypes containing a relatively high number of chromosomal changes and mostly mutated IgVH genes. This cluster displayed three cytogenetic branches, one with rearrangements in 7q, another with deletions in 17p and a third one with rearrangements in 1q and deletions in 6q and 13q. The second group included 19 cases, mostly diagnosed as B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), and characterized by few additional chromosomal changes (e.g. trisomy 12) and unmutated IgVH genes. In conclusion, our study indicates that BCL3 translocations are not restricted to B-CLL but present in a heterogeneous group of B-cell malignancies."
1528	"Four chromosomal defects associated with outcome are commonly evaluated by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), namely deletions of the 13q13-q14, 11q22 and 17p13 regions and trisomy 12. In this study, we compared a quantitative PCR method--quantitative multiplex PCR of  short fluorescent fragment (QMPSF)--with FISH for the detection of these acquired aneuploidies in a series of 110 patients with Binet stage A CLL. Genes located in the deleted or gained regions were selected as target genes and amplified using a method based on the simultaneous amplification of short fluorescent genomic fragments under quantitative conditions. A chromosomal imbalance involving one or several of the four loci was detected by either method in 72 patients (65%). A chromosome 13 deletion was present in 61 patients (54%), a 11q22 deletion in nine (8%), a trisomy 12 in nine and a 17p deletion in one. FISH and QMPSF results were identical for 103 out of 110 patients and discrepancies could be explained in most cases. This study demonstrates that a quantitative multiplex PCR represents  a cost-effective method that could replace FISH in CLL patients. However, although QMPSF is perfectly adapted to the detection of primary defects, care should be taken when searching for clonal evolutions present in a small proportion of tumor cells."
1529	"Cell adhesion and motility are central aspects in the pathophysiology of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), but the role of specific extracellular matrix proteins is still to be completely unveiled. Purified peripheral blood neoplastic cells of B-CLL patients migrated poorly on laminins-111,-411,-511, but showed pronounced motility on laminin (LM)-332 in a high percentage of cases. B-CLL cell motility on LM-332 was mediated by the alpha3beta1 integrin and was preferentially observed in cells carrying a mutated IgV(H) gene profile. Within normal lymph nodes, LM-332 was circumscribed around blood vessels and to areas corresponding to marginal zones, where it was deposited in a pattern reminiscent  of reticular fibers. Conversely, in B-CLL involved lymph nodes, a positive LM-332 reticular mesh was diffusely evident, throughout the disrupted nodal architecture. In the present study we identified LM-332 as a crucial motility-promoting factor for B-CLL lymphocytes and as a potential constituent favoring the dissemination of B-CLL lymphocytes through vascular basement membranes and possibly lymph node compartments."
1530	"Type B lactic acidosis is a rare complication of hematologic malignancies. The exact mechanism of this process is not well understood. Because caregivers may not be aware of the association of type B lactic acidosis with hematologic malignancies, it may go unrecognized as a cause of acidosis in these patients. We report the cases of 7 patients with type B lactic acidosis who were cared for by  members of the Brown Medical School Hematology/Oncology Division. Of the 7 patients reported, 5 had lymphomas and 2 had chronic lymphocytic leukemia. One of the lymphomas was a T-cell lymphoma. Of the patients we were able to evaluate, there did not seem to be a unique cluster of differentiation marker in association with type B lactic acidosis. We also review 14 additional cases, most reported since 2001. From our review of the literature, we suggest that a deficiency of thiamine or riboflavin may play a more pivotal role than previously recognized in the development of type B lactic acidosis associated with malignancy. Further investigation should be undertaken to learn if thiamine or riboflavin replacement might be useful in treating this disorder."
1531	"BACKGROUND: The synthetic triterpenoid 2-Cyano-3,12-Dioxooleana-1,9-Dien-28-Oic Acid (CDDO) and derivatives display anti-tumor activity against a variety of cultured tumor cell lines and in mouse xenografts. In this report, we have studied the effects of CDDO and its imidazolide derivative (CDDO-Im) on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), using patients' CLL cells and a mouse model of CLL and small B cell lymphoma (SBL). PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: CDDO and CDDO-Im efficiently induced apoptosis of malignant human and mouse B-cells ex vivo, although CDDO-Im was over 10-fold more potent than CDDO. Treating mice with CLL/SBL with liposome-formulated CDDO or CDDO-Im resulted in significant reductions of B cells in blood, spleen and lung. CDDO-Im  was shown to be more potent than CDDO, while treatment with empty liposomes had no impact on disease. CDDO-Im treatment initially resulted in an increase of circulating B cells, which correlates with a reduction in resident lymphocytes in spleen, and lungs, suggesting that CDDO-Im induces mobilization of tumor cells from lymphoid organs and infiltrated tissues into the circulation. Analysis of blood cells recovered from treated mice also showed that CDDO-Im is a potent inducer of tumor cells death in vivo. Furthermore, CDDO-Im efficiently eradicated mouse CLL/SBL cells but had little effect on the viability of normal B and T cells in vivo. SIGNIFICANCE: The presented data demonstrate that triterpenoids CDDO and CDDO-Im  reduce leukemia and lymphoma burden in vivo in a transgenic mouse model of CLL/SBL, and support the clinical testing of CDDO-based synthetic triterpenoids in patients with CLL."
1533	"New Zealand black (NZB) mice with autoimmune and B lymphoproliferative disease (B-LPD) are a model for human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A genomewide linkage scan of the NZB loci associated with lymphoma was conducted in F1 backcrosses of NZB and a control strain, DBA/2. Of 202 mice phenotyped for the presence or absence of LPD, surface maker expression, DNA content, and microsatellite polymorphisms, 74 had disease. The CD5(+), IgM(+), B220(dim), hyperdiploid LPD was linked to 3 loci on chromosomes 14, 18, and 19 that are distinct from previously identified autoimmunity-associated loci. The region of synteny with mouse D14mit160 is the human 13q14 region, associated with human CLL, containing microRNAs mir-15a16-1. DNA sequencing of multiple NZB tissues identified a point mutation in the 3' flanking sequence of the identical microRNA, mir-16-1, and this mutation was not present in other strains, including the nearest neighbor, NZW. Levels of miR-16 were decreased in NZB lymphoid tissue. Exogenous miR-16 delivered to an NZB malignant B-1 cell line resulted in  cell-cycle alterations and increased apoptosis. Linkage of the mir-15a/16-1 complex and the development of B-LPD in this spontaneous mouse model suggest that the altered expression of the mir-15a/16-1 is the molecular lesion in CLL."
1534	"In a prospective cohort study of more than 330,000 Swedish construction workers,  we explored the effect of tobacco smoking, oral moist snuff use, and body mass index (BMI) on the risk of developing leukemia (excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia) and multiple myeloma (MM). Study subjects were participants of a health surveillance system within the building industry. Record linkage to the nationwide Swedish cancer registry, migration registry, and cause of death registry made a comprehensive follow-up available. A total of 372 incident cases  of leukemia and 520 subjects with MM was ascertained. An increase in risk of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) was observed in current smokers (incidence rate  ratio, 1.50; 95% confidence interval, 1.06-2.11). Furthermore, there was an indication of a possible association between smoking intensity and risk of acute  lymphocytic leukemia. Results on snuff use as well as BMI showed no association.  This study confirms the role of smoking as a risk factor for AML and gives no support to the hypothesis of a role of snuff use or BMI level on the risk of leukemia or MM."
1535	"PURPOSE: Erythropoietin (EPO) and EPO receptor (EPO-R) expression have been reported in solid tumors and are claimed to regulate tumor growth; however, no data have been published on this issue in B-cell malignancies or normal lymphoid  cells. This report describes genomic/protein EPO-R expression and in vitro effects of recombinant human EPO (epoetin) in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), mantle-cell lymphoma (MCL), and multiple myeloma (MM). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Blood samples were obtained from patients with B-CLL, MCL, and healthy volunteers, and bone marrow was obtained from MM patients. EPO-R mRNA was detected by reverse transcription-PCR. EPO-R surface expression was investigated by flow cytometry using digoxigenin-labeled epoetin and polyclonal rabbit anti-EPO-R antibody for intracellular receptor. Tumor cell stimulation was determined in vitro using [(3)H]thymidine incorporation and CD69 expression after exposure to epoetin alpha or beta or darbepoetin alpha. RESULTS: EPO-R mRNA was detected in mononuclear cells from 32 of 41 (78%) B-CLL and 5 of 7 (71%) MCL patients, and 21 of 21 (100%) MM samples. Expression was also detected in highly purified T cells from six of eight B-CLL patients, four of four MM patients, and normal donor B and T cells. Surface EPO-R protein was not detected. Intracellular EPO-R staining with anti-EPO-R antibodies was unspecific. No tumor-stimulatory effect was observed with high epoetin concentrations. CONCLUSIONS: EPO-R gene is frequently expressed in lymphoid malignancies and normal B and T cells. However, there was no surface protein expression and no epoetin-induced in vitro stimulation of tumor B cells, indicating that epoetin therapy in vivo is likely to be safe in patients with lymphoid malignancies."
1536	"CD40, a tumor necrosis factor receptor family member, is expressed on B lymphocytes. Interaction between CD40 and its ligand (CD40L), expressed on activated T lymphocytes, is critical for B cell survival. Here, we demonstrate that CD40 signals B cell survival in part via transcriptional activation of the RelB NF-kappaB subunit. CD40L treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells induced levels of relB mRNA. Similarly, CD40L-mediated rescue of WEHI 231 B lymphoma cells from apoptosis induced upon B cell receptor (surface IgM) engagement led to increased relB mRNA levels. Recently, we characterized a new de novo synthesis pathway for the RelB NF-kappaB subunit, induced by the cytomegalovirus IE1 protein, in which binding of p50/p65 NF-kappaB and c-Jun/Fra-2 AP-1 complexes to the relB promoter works in synergy to potently activate transcription (Wang, X., and Sonenshein, G. E. (2005) J. Virol. 79, 95-105). CD40L treatment of WEHI 231 cells caused induction of AP-1 family members Fra-2, c-Jun, JunD, and JunB. Cotransfection of Fra-2 with the Jun AP-1 subunits and p50/c-Rel NF-kappaB led to synergistic activation of the relB promoter. Ectopic expression of relB or RelB knockdown using small interfering RNA demonstrated the important role of this subunit in control of WEHI 231 cell survival and implicated activation of the anti-apoptotic factors Survivin and manganese superoxide dismutase. Thus, CD40 engagement of transformed B cells activates relB gene transcription via a process we have termed the de novo RelB synthesis pathway, which protects these cells from apoptosis."
1537	"The anti-cancer agent methyl jasmonate (MJ) acts in vitro and in vivo against various cancer cell lines, as well as leukemic cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Given the importance of multi-agent combinations in cancer chemotherapy, the purpose of this study was to identify super-additive combinations of MJ and currently-available chemotherapeutic drugs. We identified  such cooperative effects in six cell lines arising from different major types of  malignancies, i.e., breast, lung, prostate and pancreas carcinomas as well as leukemia. The chemotherapeutic drugs tested were adriamycin, taxol, BCNU and cisplatin. For instance, MJ exhibited strong cooperative effects with BCNU in MIA PaCa-2 pancreatic carcinoma cells. Furthermore, MJ enhanced significantly (pV=0.028) the anti-leukemic effect of adriamycin in vivo, in a CLL mouse model.  Finally, MJ cooperated with the glycolysis inhibitor 2-deoxy-D-glucose in inducing death of several types of carcinoma cells. We conclude that administration of MJ with common chemotherapeutic drugs and glycolysis inhibitors bears a promise for effective anti-cancer therapy."
1538	"The salvage of deoxyribonucleosides in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, which has an extremely A+T-rich genome, was investigated. All native  deoxyribonucleosides were phosphorylated by D. discoideum cell extracts and we subcloned three deoxyribonucleoside kinase (dNK) encoding genes. D. discoideum thymidine kinase was similar to the human thymidine kinase 1 and was specific for thymidine with a K(m) of 5.1 microM. The other two cloned kinases were phylogenetically closer to bacterial deoxyribonucleoside kinases than to the eukaryotic enzymes. D. discoideum deoxyadenosine kinase (DddAK) had a K(m) for deoxyadenosine of 22.7 microM and a k(cat) of 3.7 s(-1) and could not efficiently phosphorylate any other native deoxyribonucleoside. D. discoideum deoxyguanosine  kinase was also a purine-specific kinase and phosphorylated significantly only deoxyguanosine, with a K(m) of 1.4 microM and a k(cat) of 3 s(-1). The two purine-specific deoxyribonucleoside kinases could represent ancient enzymes present in the common ancestor of bacteria and eukaryotes but remaining only in a few eukaryote lineages. The narrow substrate specificity of the D. discoideum dNKs reflects the biased genome composition and we attempted to explain the strict preference of DddAK for deoxyadenosine by modeling the active center with  different substrates. Apart from its native substrate, deoxyadenosine, DddAK efficiently phosphorylated fludarabine. Hence, DddAK could be used in the enzymatic production of fludarabine monophosphate, a drug used in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
1541	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by survival advantage and accumulation of CD5+ mature B lymphocytes. Expression of zeta-chain-associated protein-70 (ZAP-70), normally present in T lymphocytes or immature B cells, is associated with disease aggressiveness, as IgVH mutational status, and some proteins implicated in survival signal pathways are found to be constitutively activated in CLL cells. ZAP-70 signaling is regulated through molecular adaptors, such as the proto-oncogene product c-Casitas B lineage lymphoma (c-Cbl). The aim  of this study was to determine the implication of this proto-oncogene product in  CLL in survival signals. It appeared that expression of c-Cbl was increased in CLL and not correlated to that of B cell linker protein or ZAP-70. Furthermore, c-Cbl was significantly hypophosphorylated in progressive disease, so that hypophosphorylated form of c-Cbl (c-Cbl.P) along with ZAP-70, set a cutoff ratio  distributing patients with stable situation below 1, and those with progressive disease equal or above 1. Given that phospholipase gamma 2 (PLC gamma 2) function is also influenced by c-Cbl hypophosphorylation, the ratio of PLC gamma 2 to c-Cbl.P was measured in CLL B cells and consistently found to be >or= 1 in Binet  stage B CLL patients, as opposed to stage A CLL patients. These findings invite analysis of the role of c-Cbl in CLL."
1542	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of small noncoding RNAs that modulate the expression of genes at the posttranscriptional level. These small molecules have  been shown to be involved in cancer, apoptosis, and cell metabolism. In the present study we provide an informative profile of the expression of miRNAs in primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells using 2 independent and quantitative methods: miRNA cloning and quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) of mature miRNAs. Both approaches show that miR-21 and miR-155 are dramatically overexpressed in patients with CLL, although the corresponding genomic loci are not amplified. miR-150 and miR-92 are also significantly deregulated in patients with CLL. In addition, we detected a marked miR-15a and miR-16 decrease in about 11% of cases. Finally, we identified a set of miRNAs whose expression correlates with biologic parameters of prognostic relevance, particularly with the mutational status of the IgV(H) genes. In summary, the results of this study offer for the first time a comprehensive and quantitative profile of miRNA expression in CLL and their healthy counterpart, suggesting that miRNAs could play a primary role in the disease itself."
1543	"The clinical course for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia is extremely heterogeneous. The Rai and Binet staging systems have been used to risk-stratify  patients; most patients present with early-stage disease. We evaluated a group of previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) at initial  presentation to University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center to identify independent characteristics that predict for overall survival. Clinical and routine laboratory characteristics for 1674 previously untreated patients who presented for evaluation of CLL from 1981 to 2004 were included. Univariate and multivariate analyses identified several patient characteristics at presentation  that predicted for overall survival in previously untreated patients with CLL. A  multivariate Cox proportional hazards model was developed, including the following independent characteristics: age, beta-2 microglobulin, absolute lymphocyte count, sex, Rai stage, and number of involved lymph node groups. Inclusion of patients from a single institution and the proportion of patients younger than 65 years may limit this model. A weighted prognostic model, or nomogram, predictive for overall survival was constructed using these 6 characteristics for 5- and 10-year survival probability and estimated median survival time. This prognostic model may help patients and clinicians in clinical decision making as well as in clinical research and clinical trial design."
1544	"We recently identified a disease-specific gene CLLU1 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and also demonstrated that high CLLU1 expression levels predict poor clinical outcome. To validate this finding, we measured CLLU1 mRNA expression levels by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in 175 patients with CLL. Analyses of IgV(H) mutational status, ZAP-70 expression, CD38 expression, and chromosomal aberrations were also performed. High levels of CLLU1 expression were associated with shorter overall survival (P  < .001), with a 7% increase in risk of early death by each doubling of the CLLU1  expression level. Stratification for age at diagnosis demonstrated a strong prognostic significance of CLLU1 expression in patients younger than 70 years (P  < .001), but not in patients aged 70 or older (P = .61). The prognostic significance of IgV(H) mutational status and ZAP-70 expression had a similar age-dependent variation. Multivariate analysis in the younger age group showed that CLLU1 expression analysis added further prognostic information within all prognostic subgroups, with the exception of patients with unmutated IgV(H) CLL. Only CLLU1 expression and IgV(H) mutational status had independent predictive power. Thus, analysis of CLLU1 expression is highly applicable in risk prediction in CLL for patients of an age eligible for risk stratification."
1545	"Parvovirus B19 has a marked tropism for erythroid progenitor cells. This may lead to chronic anemia in predisposed individuals. The purpose of the study was to investigate the frequency of parvovirus B19 infections in patients with diagnosis of haematological disorders. In order to determine the diagnostic use of different markers of parvovirus B19 infection, serum specimens obtained from 79 patients with haematological disorders were tested for specific antibodies and viral DNA through the use of ELISA and PCR techniques. Evidence of parvovirus B19 infection was found in 23/79 (29.1%) patients by demonstrating viral DNA and/or specific IgM antibody. B19 infection was established in 3 of 11 patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, in 3 of 11 acute myeloid leukemia, in 2 of 11 patients  with multiple myeloma, in 3 of 8 patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma, in 5 of 10 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, in 1 of 6 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, in 4 of 11 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and in 2 of 11 patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia. In 4 of 23 positive patients, only parvovirus B19 DNA could be detected, while 7 patients were tested positive for both parvovirus B19 DNA and specific IgM. Nine patients were tested positive for  both B19 DNA and specific IgG. In the remaining 3 positive patients only specific IgM could be detected. Due to the discrepancies between DNA and IgM results, the  diagnostic procedures should include a search for specific DNA by PCR methods if  specific IgM has been found to be negative."
1546	"BACKGROUND: The prevalence of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) increases with age. Although chemoimmunotherapy (CIT) has dramatically improved response rates in patients with CLL, some CIT regimens are not well tolerated by many patients >or=70 years of age. METHODS: Sixty-four previously untreated patients with CLL and serum creatinine <1.5 times the upper limit of normal who met National Cancer Institute (NCI) 96-WG criteria for treatment received pentostatin (2 mg/m(2)), cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m(2)), and rituximab (375 mg/m(2)). The authors measured performance status at study entry and used age, weight, and baseline creatinine to calculate  creatinine clearance (CrCl). RESULTS: Eighteen of 64 (28%) patients were ages >or=70 years. Although individuals ages >or=70 years were more likely to have delayed treatment cycles (28% vs 7%; P=.03), there were no significant differences in the number of cycles administered, need for dose reductions, or grade 3-4 hematologic, infectious, or  other toxicities. No significant differences in overall response rate, complete response rate, or progression-free survival were observed by age. Twenty-five (39%) patients had a CrCl < 70 mL/min (range, 34-67). Although individuals with CrCl < 70 were more likely to require dose reduction (24% vs 5%; P=.05), there were no significant differences in the number of cycles administered or grade 3-4 hematologic, infectious, or other toxicities. No significant difference in overall response rate, complete response rate, or progression-free survival were  observed between patients with CrCl >or= 70 mL/min and those with CrCl < 70 mL/min. CONCLUSIONS: In this clinical trial, the PCR regimen was well tolerated by older  patients and individuals with CrCl <or= 70. The efficacy of PCR was not significantly affected by age or renal function. These findings suggest PCR may be a good therapeutic option for older patients and those with modestly decreased renal function."
1548	"The transcription factor PU.1 is essential for myeloid and B-cell development. Down-regulation of PU.1 by disruption of its 14-kb 5' upstream regulatory element induced acute myeloid leukemia, T-cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia-like disease in murine models. In the present study, we found that PU.1  was down-regulated in the majority of human myeloma cell lines and a subset of freshly isolated myeloma cells, in contrast to relatively high expression of PU.1 in normal plasma cells. Patients in this low PU.1 expression subset may have a poor prognosis. In human myeloma cell lines, the 17-kb 5' upstream enhancer and the promoter region of the PU.1 gene were highly methylated, and this is consistent with disappearance of DNase I-hypersensitive sites in these regions. To elucidate the significance of down-regulation of PU.1, we generated stable myeloma cell lines with an inducible PU.1 expression system. Exogenous expression of PU.1 in PU.1 null myeloma cell lines, U266 and KMS12PE, induced complete growth arrest and cell death. Up-regulation of PU.1 by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine also induced growth arrest of KMS12PE and KHM11 myeloma cells. These data suggest that down-regulation of PU.1 is an essential step for the survival of a subset of myeloma cells and that up-regulation of PU.1 by demethylation agents or other types of agents may represent a new therapeutic strategy for treatment of multiple myeloma patients."
1551	"PURPOSE: Previous studies in our laboratory have shown the progressive methylation and suppression of the gene encoding protein tyrosine phosphatase, PTPRO, in the livers of rats fed a methyl-deficient diet that induces hepatocarcinogenesis. Subsequently, we observed the methylation of PTPRO in primary human lung tumors and also showed its potential tumor suppressor characteristics. The present study was undertaken to investigate whether the truncated form of PTPRO (PTPROt), specifically expressed in naïve B lymphocytes,  was also methylated and suppressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a disease generally affecting B lymphocytes. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN AND RESULTS: Initial screening showed that 60% of the 52 CLL  samples analyzed using methylation-specific PCR assay were methylated compared with B lymphocytes from normal individuals, which were not methylated. The expression of PTPROt, as measured by semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR,  inversely correlated with methylation in the few samples tested. Analysis of additional samples (n = 50) by combined bisulfite restriction analysis showed that the PTPRO CpG island was methylated in 82% of patients with CLL compared with B lymphocytes from normal individuals. Furthermore, overall expression of PTPRO was reduced in CLL relative to normal lymphocytes. The PTPRO gene was also  suppressed by methylation in the CLL cell line WaC3CD5, where it could be reactivated upon treatment with the DNA hypomethylating agent 5-AzaC. Ectopic expression of PTPROt in a nonexpressing cell line increased growth inhibition with fludarabine treatment, a therapy commonly used for CLL. CONCLUSION: This study reveals the potential role of PTPRO methylation and silencing in CLL tumorigenesis and also provides a novel molecular target in the  epigenetic therapy."
1552	"The number of new anti-cancer drugs emerging for clinical trials in humans far exceeds the availability of pediatric acute leukemia patients to be entered into  clinical trials. Therefore, preclinical testing of new agents for the treatment of childhood acute leukemia is essential to ensure that the most promising drugs  are prioritized to enter clinical trials. Historically, the murine system has been central to modeling human leukemia in vivo. A greater knowledge of the molecular lesions underlying particular subtypes of leukemia has led to the generation of genetically engineered murine models, generally involving the knockin or knockout of certain genes and fusion genes at their normal genetic locus. However, the most predominant in vivo models for preclinical drug testing  have been human leukemia xenografts. Successful engraftment of all subtypes of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, most subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia as well as  juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia have been described in various immune-deficient murine hosts. Preclinical testing of novel therapeutics in vivo will likely identify the most promising new agents to enter clinical trials, and will allow their future use to be optimized in combination with other novel and conventional chemotherapeutics."
1554	"OBJECTIVE: CD23 is constitutively and atypically expressed on malignant B cells in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Here, we investigated whether CD23-derived peptides might function as B-CLL-specific tumor-associated antigen (TAA). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using IFN-gamma-ELISPOT assays and HLA-A2/dimer-peptide staining we identified autologous, CD23-specific HLA-A0201-restricted T cells after 4 weeks of in vitro culture. RESULTS: We were able to expand autologous T cells from 8/11 B-CLL patients by using native and CD40L-activated B-CLL cells as antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in 5 cases whereas for 3 samples an autologous T cell response could only be evoked by use of CD40L-stimulated B-CLL cells as APCs. The number of CD8(+) T cells could be expanded during 4 weeks of in vitro culture with native or CD40L-activated B-CLL cells. We could demonstrate that the expanded T cells were  also able to secrete IFN-gamma upon recognition of the antigen using IFN-gamma-ELISPOT assays. Furthermore, these T cells not only recognized HLA-A0201-binding CD23-derived peptides presented by T2 cells, but also CD23-overexpressing autologous B-CLL cells in an MHC-I-restricted manner. CONCLUSION: In sum, CD23-derived peptides were shown to be naturally processed and presented as TAA in primary B-CLL, enabling the expansion of autologous tumor-specific T cells."
1555	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common form of leukemia in elderly people. The clinico-hematological profile and treatment outcome of patients with  CLL were assessed using retrospective case record analysis over 11 years. There were 95 (75 males: 20 females) patients with a median age of 61 years. Thirty patients were aged 55 years or less (young CLL patients) and 65 were more than 55 years of age (elder CLL patients). Sixty percent patients had non-specific complaints, such as weakness, cough and indigestion. Twenty-six (27%) patients had pallor and 24 (25%) had fever as initial presenting manifestation. Bleeding manifestations were seen in 7 patients. Seven patients were diagnosed incidentally. Lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly and hepatomegaly were seen in 52 (55%), 63 (66%) and 60 (63%) patients, respectively. The median white blood cell  count and absolute lymphocyte counts were 70,600 and 51,490/mul, respectively. Three patients had autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Twenty-five patients (26%) had anemia with hemoglobin < 11 g/dl and thrombocytopenia with platelet count 100 x 10(3)/mm(3) was seen in 17 (18%). Interstitial nodular, mixed and diffuse bone marrow (BM) involvement was seen in 10.2, 67.3, 6.1 and 16.3% cases, respectively. Eighteen (60%) young patients and 35 (54%) older patients required  treatment with chlorambucil. The mean time from initial diagnosis to treatment was 4.6 +/- 10.7 months. None of our patient attained complete response. Six patients obtained partial response. Median duration of chlorambucil was 7 months  (1-86 months). Forty-six patients had stable disease. Three patients died. Median survival of study group was 4 years (8 months-13 years). In older CLL it was 4 years (8 months-11 years) and in young patients, survival duration was 5.5 years  (1-13 years)."
1557	"The most frequent chromosomal abnormalities in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) are deletions on 13q14 and 17p13, trisomy 12, and 14q32 rearrangement. Conventional cytogenetic analysis underestimates the frequency of  specific chromosome aberrations in B-CLL because of the low rate of spontaneous mitoses and the poor response to mitogen stimulation. We used interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (I-FISH) to explore the incidence of chromosomal changes in the peripheral blood cells of B-CLL patients. Probes for 13q14 (D13S319), 17p13 (p53), the centromere of chromosome 12 (CEP12), and 14q32  (IGHC/IGHV) were applied to detect chromosomal aberrations in peripheral blood samples from 83 B-CLL patients (60 men, 23 women). Molecular cytogenetic aberrations were found in 61 cases (73.5%), and 8 patients (9.6%) showed 2 kinds  of abnormalities. The most frequent abnormality was deletion of 13q14 (41.0%), followed by +12 (19.3%), deletion of 17p13 (12%), and 14q32 rearrangement (9.6%). FISH results were analyzed for correlation with Binet stages. The percentages of  patients who showed abnormalities by FISH were 73.0%, 73.3%, and 80% for Binet stages A, B, and C, respectively, and the percentages of patients with abnormalities who showed 2 anomalies were 7.9%, 27.3%, and 0% for Binet stages A, B, and C, respectively. We noted no consistent pattern among the various Binet stages in the distribution of either the types of FISH-detected anomalies or the  numbers of FISH anomalies. I-FISH was found to be a rapid, exact, and sensitive technique for analysis of chromosome aberrations in CLL. FISH could provide accurate information regarding the molecular cytogenetic features of CLL."
1558	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate a large proportion of mammalian genes by hybridizing  to targeted messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and down-regulating their translation into protein. Although much work has been done in the genome-wide computational prediction of miRNA genes and their target mRNAs, an open question is how to efficiently obtain functional miRNA targets from a large number of candidate miRNA targets predicted by existing computational algorithms. In this paper, we propose a novel Bayesian model and learning algorithm, GenMiR++ (Generative model for miRNA regulation), that accounts for patterns of gene expression using miRNA  expression data and a set of candidate miRNA targets. A set of high-confidence functional miRNA targets are then obtained from the data using a Bayesian learning algorithm. Our model scores 467 high-confidence miRNA targets out of 1,770 targets obtained from TargetScanS in mouse at a false detection rate of 2.5%: several confirmed miRNA targets appear in our high-confidence set, such as  the interactions between miR-92 and the signal transduction gene MAP2K4, as well  as the relationship between miR-16 and BCL2, an anti-apoptotic gene which has been implicated in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We present results on the robustness of our model showing that our learning algorithm is not sensitive to various perturbations of the data. Our high-confidence targets represent a significant increase in the number of miRNA targets and represent a starting point for a global understanding of gene regulation."
1559	"BACKGROUND: CD23 expression in normal B lymphocytes is limited to autoreactive B  cells, naïve B cells and mature B cells manifesting an activated phenotype. As a  marker of hematologic dyscrasia/malignancy, expression of CD23 is associated with small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia. An absence of CD23 expression within small lymphocytes is typically seen in marginal zone lymphoma and mantle cell lymphoma. Positive CD23 expression amidst neoplastic cells in primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma is not a reported phenomenon. METHODS: This paper reports nine patients with cutaneous B-cell lymphoma manifesting CD23 expression. RESULTS: In seven of the nine cases CD23 expression was observed in the setting of recurrent disease, being present in both large and small lymphocytes. CD23 expression paralleled staining for CD40 in all but one case. CONCLUSIONS: A potential mechanism of CD23 upregulation may involve the anti-apoptotic nuclear kappa beta CD40-CD40 ligand pathway. Neoplastic B cells manifesting CD23 expression could have a survival advantage, predisposing to recurrent disease and or oncogenic events permissive to disease progression."
1560	"Chlorambucil (CLB) treatment is used in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) but resistance to CLB develops in association with accelerated repair of CLB-induced  DNA damage. Phosphorylated histone H2AX (gammaH2AX) is located at DNA double-strand break (DSB) sites; furthermore, it recruits and retains damage-responsive proteins. This damage can be repaired by nonhomologous DNA end-joining (NHEJ) and/or homologous recombinational repair (HR) pathways. A key  component of NHEJ is the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) complex. Increased DNA-PK activity is associated with resistance to CLB in CLL. We used the specific DNA-PK inhibitor 2-(morpholin-4-yl)-benzo[h]chomen-4-one (NU7026) to sensitize CLL cells to chlorambucil. Our results indicate that in a CLL cell line (I83) and in primary CLL-lymphocytes, chlorambucil plus NU7026 has synergistic cytotoxic activity at nontoxic doses of NU7026. CLB treatment results in G(2)/M phase arrest, and NU7026 increases this CLB-induced G(2)/M arrest. Moreover, a kinetic  time course demonstrates that CLB-induced DNA-PK activity was inhibited by NU7026, providing direct evidence of the ability of NU7026 to inhibit DNA-PK function. DSBs, visualized as gammaH2AX, were enhanced 24 to 48 h after CLB and further increased by CLB plus NU7026, suggesting that the synergy of the combination is mediated by NU7026 inhibition of DNA-PK with subsequent inhibition of DSB repair."
1561	"A 14 yr-old male, vasectomized African lion (Panthera leo) exhibited mild weight  loss despite adequate appetite. Splenomegaly was diagnosed on physical examination. On the basis of hematology and clinical pathology, malignant lymphoma with chronic lymphocytic leukemia was diagnosed. Abdominal exploratory surgery and splenectomy were performed. Histologic examination and immunohistochemistry confirmed a small cell peripheral T-cell lymphoma. Initial treatments consisted of doxorubicin and prednisone, with later addition of lomustine. The lion remained in clinical remission at 2 mo, 6 mo, and 12 mo postchemotherapy physical examinations. The lion survived 504 days from initial diagnosis. At necropsy, the only lesions consistent with lymphoma were localized  epitheliotrophic infiltrates of small neoplastic T lymphocytes within the nasopharyngeal epithelium and the underlying submucosa observed on microscopic examination."
1563	"The rearrangement of the immunoglobulin genes (IG) provides a large diversity of  B-cell receptors conformations and allows the immune system to respond differently to foreign antigens. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), there are a restricted number of stereotyped B-cell receptors rearranged by the tumor B-cells between CLL patients. These subsets with stereotyped receptors appear to  have clinical implications, for example cases that rearrange the IGHV3-21 gene display poor clinical prognosis. The number of subsets with stereotyped receptors has been reported at a frequency of over 20% of CLL cases; however, the specificities of these receptors are still not clearly defined. Reactivity to epitopes from bacterial antigen, cytoskeleton components such as vimentin, and antigens on viable and apoptotic T-cell have been proposed. The role of antigen in CLL development is currently being more clearly defined with identification of stereotyped receptors, and their antigen specificity and the continued role antigen stimulation plays in CLL disease will be an important question in the future."
1564	"The clinical course of patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is often made complicated by autoimmune phenomena which mainly target the blood cells. Among them, the autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is the most common form. On the other hand, it is believed that CLL is the most common of the known  causes of AIHA. The source of any putative autoantibody (bystander nonmalignant cells or tumor cells) is not clear yet. Recently, it has been hypothesized that leukemic B-cells may also act as professional antigen presenting cells (APCs). With respect to the management of CLL-associated AIHA, steroids still represent the first-line treatment option. Intravenous immunoglobulin, immunosuppressive drugs, and splenectomy are also frequently used for steroid-refractory forms. Furthermore, although the case series is still too small, encouraging data is now supporting the use of monoclonal antibodies, in particular anti-CD20 rituximab, in managing this often life-threatening autoimmune complication of CLL."
1565	"The DNA methylation index (MI) is calculated as a percentage of methylated cytosines to cytosines. We established the DNA MI in 100 normal individuals ranging in age between 1 month and 94 years and found that the age-specific DNA MI can be calculated (4.00-0.0034 x age). We determined the DNA MI in 23 patients with CLL ranging from 47 to 90 years and compared the results with age-matched controls. Using Cox proportional hazard models for MI, adjusting for age and white blood cell count, only the DNA MI correlated with early clinical indications for systemic therapy (p=0.0038, HR=7.00, 95% CI: 1.90-26.20)."
1566	"Differentiation of naïve B cells into plasma cells or memory cells occurs in the  germinal centers (GCs) of lymph follicles or alternatively via a GC- and T-cell-independent pathway. It is currently assumed that B-cell lymphomas correlate to normal B-cell differentiation stages, but the precise correlation of several B-cell lymphomas to these two pathways remains controversial. In the present report, we describe the junctional adhesion molecule C (JAM-C), currently identified at the cell-cell border of endothelial cells, as a new B-cell marker with a tightly regulated expression during B-cell differentiation. Expression of  JAM-C in tonsils allows distinction between two CD27+ B-cell subpopulations: JAM-C- GC B cells and JAM-C+ non-germinal B cells. The expression of JAM-C in different B-cell lymphomas reveals a disease-specific pattern and allows a clear  distinction between JAM-C- lymphoproliferative syndromes (chronic lymphocytic leukemia, mantle cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma) and JAM-C+ ones (hairy cell leukemia, marginal zone B-cell lymphoma). Therefore, we propose JAM-C as a new identification tool in B-cell lymphoma diagnosis."
1568	"The B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/lymphoma 11B gene (BCL11B) encodes  a Krüppel-like zinc-finger protein, which plays a crucial role in thymopoiesis and has been associated with hematopoietic malignancies. It was hypothesized that BCL11B may act as a tumor-suppressor gene, but its precise function has not yet been elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that the survival of human T-cell leukemia  and lymphoma cell lines is critically dependent on Bcl11b. Suppression of Bcl11b  by RNA interference selectively induced apoptosis in transformed T cells whereas  normal mature T cells remained unaffected. The apoptosis was effected by simultaneous activation of death receptor-mediated and intrinsic apoptotic pathways, most likely as a result of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) upregulation and suppression of the Bcl-xL antiapoptotic protein. Our data indicate an antiapoptotic function of Bcl11b. The resistance of normal mature T lymphocytes to Bcl11b suppression-induced apoptosis and restricted expression pattern make it an attractive therapeutic target in T-cell malignancies."
1569	"Alemtuzumab (Campath-1H) is a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody that targets the human CD52 antigen. CD52 is expressed by a variety of lymphoid neoplasms and most human mononuclear cell subsets. In 2001, alemtuzumab was approved for marketing in the United States and Europe for use in patients with fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In heavily pretreated patients with CLL, the  overall response rate (ORR) is approximately 35%, and in previously untreated patients the ORR is greater than 80%, with a recent randomized study suggesting it is superior to alkylator-based therapy. Importantly, alemtuzumab is effective  in patients with high-risk del(17p13.1) and del(11q22.3) CLL. Alemtuzumab combination studies with fludarabine and/or monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab have demonstrated promising results. Alemtuzumab is also being studied  in CLL patients as consolidation therapy for treatment of minimal residual disease, in preparation for stem cell transplantation and to prevent acute and chronic graft versus host disease. Alemtuzumab is frequently associated with acute 'first-dose' reactions when administered intravenously, but is much better  tolerated when administered subcutaneously without loss of therapeutic efficacy.  Additional potential adverse events associated with alemtuzumab administration include myelosuppression as well as profound cellular immune dysfunction with the associated risk of viral reactivation and other opportunistic infections. Additional studies detailing the mechanism of action of alemtuzumab as well as new strategies for prevention of opportunistic infections will aid in the future  therapeutic development of this agent."
1570	"We recently reported that, in cultured leukemic T lymphocytes and promyelocytic cells, a mild heat shock treatment (1 h at 42 degrees C) induced a long lasting stimulation of the apoptosis induced by TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL). On the opposite, no effects were recorded toward normal human T lymphocytes. The apoptogenic efficiency of TRAIL in leukemic lymphocytes is linked to the long lasting increased ability of TRAIL to recognize and bind DR4 and DR5 receptors during hyperthermia. Here, we have analyzed whether this new apoptotic co-treatment could be relevant toward primary cells from patients suffering of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Analysis of samples from 24 patients with different ages, sex and disease stages revealed that half of them had lymphocytes that, once isolated and analyzed in vitro, positively responded (increase of cell death) to the heat shock plus TRAIL co-treatment. Analysis of the level of expression of various anti-apoptotic proteins in the cell samples revealed a great heterogeneity between patients and no clear relationships could  be drawn. Nevertheless, most cell samples that were sensitive to TRAIL plus heat  shock induced apoptosis displayed a higher level of cell surface DR4 and DR5 receptors than the non-sensitive counterparts. Hence, analysis of the level of TRAIL surface receptors is a prerequisite for future clinical applications based  on this protocol."
1571	"The 2 subsets of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), of worse or better prognosis, likely derive from pre-GC unmutated B cells, or post-GC mutated B cells, respectively. Different clinical behavior could relate to the ability of tumor cells to respond to surface (sIg)-mediated signals. Unmutated cases (U-CLL) have an increased ability to phosphorylate p72(Syk) in response to sIgM ligation  compared to mutated cases (M-CLL). We now confirm and further investigate this differential signaling in a large cohort by [Ca(2+)](i) mobilization. Cases responding to sIgM ligation express higher levels of CD38, ZAP-70, and sIgM. However, CD38 does not influence signaling in vitro or associate with response in bimodal CD38-expressing cases. Similarly, ZAP-70 expression is not required for response in either U-CLL or M-CLL. Strikingly, partially or completely anergized  sIgM responses from each subset can recover both sIgM expression and signal capacity spontaneously in vitro or following capping/endocytosis. This provides direct evidence for engagement of putative antigen in vivo. Signaling via sIgD differs markedly being almost universally positive in both U-CLL and M-CLL, with  no association with CD38 or ZAP-70 expression. Downstream signaling pathways, therefore, appear intact in CLL, locating anergy to sIgM, mainly in M-CLL. Integration of differential isotype-specific effects mediated by (auto)antigen may determine tumor behavior."
1572	"Previous reports have shown that honokiol induces apoptosis in numerous cancer cell lines and showed preclinical efficacies against apoptosis-resistant B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma cells from relapse-refractory patients. Here, we show that honokiol can induce a cell death distinct from apoptosis in HL60, MCF-7, and HEK293 cell lines. The death was characterized by a rapid loss of integrity of plasma membrane without externalization of phosphatidyl serine. The broad caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk failed to prevent this cell death. Consistently, caspase activation and DNA laddering were not observed. The death was paralleled by a rapid loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, which was mechanistically associated with the mitochondrial permeability transition pore regulated by cyclophilin D (CypD) based on the following evidence: (a) cyclosporin A, an inhibitor of CypD (an essential component of the  mitochondrial permeability transition pore), effectively prevented honokiol-induced cell death and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential; (b) inhibition of CypD by RNA interference blocked honokiol-induced cell death; (c) CypD up-regulated by honokiol was correlated with the death rates in HL60, but not in K562 cells, which underwent apoptosis after being exposed to honokiol. We  further showed that honokiol induced a CypD-regulated death in primary human acute myelogenous leukemia cells, overcame Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L)-mediated apoptotic  resistance, and was effective against HL60 cells in a pilot in vivo study. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report to document an induction of mitochondrial permeability transition pore-associated cell death by honokiol."
1573	"Follistatin related gene (FLRG) has been previously identified from a chromosomal translocation observed in a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). FLRG (alternative names: follistatin-related protein, FSRP/follistatin-like-3, FSTL3)  is a secreted glycoprotein highly similar to follistatin. Like follistatin, FLRG  is involved in the regulation of various biological effects through its binding to members of the transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) superfamily such as activin A and myostatin. We have previously shown that TGFbeta and activin A are  potent inducers of FLRG transcriptional activation through the Smad proteins. Using a biochemical approach, we investigated whether tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) could regulate FLRG expression since TNFalpha plays a critical role in hematopoietic malignancies. We demonstrate that TNFalpha activates FLRG expression at the transcriptional level. This activation depends on a promoter region containing four 107-108 bp DNA repeats, which are evolutionary conserved in primates. These repeats carry a strong phylogenetic signal, which is not common among non-coding sequences. Each DNA repeat contains one TNFalpha responsive element (5'-GGGAGAG/TTCC-3') able to bind nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) transcription factors. We also show that TGFbeta, through the Smad proteins, potentates the effect of TNFalpha on FLRG expression. This cooperation  is unexpected since TGFbeta and TNFalpha usually have opposite biological effects. In all, this work brings new insights in the understanding of FLRG regulation by cytokines and growth factors. It opens attractive perspectives of research that should allow us to better understand the role of FLRG during tumorigenesis."
1575	"The antibody alemtuzumab (anti-CD52) is effective in preventing acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (aHSCT). As well as depleting donor T cells, alemtuzumab may also work by targeting host dendritic cells (DC). To determine whether this second mechanism of action is significant, we investigated the effects of intravenous alemtuzumab by comparing skin and blood DC numbers of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, before and after a 4-week course of alemtuzumab treatment.  Although skin DC express CD52, the epitope is only weakly detectable and their numbers were not consistently reduced by alemtuzumab. In contrast, circulating blood DC, with stronger CD52 expression, were invariably diminished by alemtuzumab. Because DC depletion in the transplant recipient remains a promising approach for GvHD prophylaxis and therapy, more potent techniques, such as an antibody of different specificity, may be required for effective DC eradication in GvHD target organs."
1577	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short 19- to 24-nt RNA molecules that have been shown to regulate the expression of other genes in a variety of eukaryotic systems. Abnormal expression of miRNAs has been observed in several human cancers, and furthermore, germ-line and somatic mutations in human miRNAs were recently identified in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Thus, human miRNAs can  act as tumor suppressor genes or oncogenes, where mutations, deletions, or amplifications can underlie the development of certain types of leukemia. In addition, previous studies have shown that miRNA expression profiles can distinguish among human solid tumors from different organs. Because a single miRNA can simultaneously influence the expression of two or more protein-coding genes, we hypothesized that miRNAs could be candidate genes for cancer risk. Research in complex trait genetics has demonstrated that genetic background determines cancer susceptibility or resistance in various tissues, such as colon  and lung, of different inbred mouse strains. We compared the genome positions of  mouse tumor susceptibility loci with those of mouse miRNAs. Here, we report a statistically significant association between the chromosomal location of miRNAs  and those of mouse cancer susceptibility loci that influence the development of solid tumors. Furthermore, we identified distinct patterns of flanking DNA sequences for several miRNAs located at or near susceptibility loci in inbred strains with different tumor susceptibilities. These data provide a catalog of miRNA genes in inbred strains that could represent genes involved in the development and penetrance of solid tumors."
1578	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by accumulation of mature appearing lymphocytes and is rarely complicated by thrombosis. One possible explanation for the paucity of thrombotic events in these patients may be the presence of the ecto-nucleotidase CD39/NTDPase-1 on the surface of the malignant cells in CLL. CD39 is the major promoter of platelet inhibition in vivo via its metabolism of ADP to AMP. We hypothesize that if CD39 is observed on CLL  cells, then patients with CLL may be relatively protected against platelet aggregation and recruitment and that CD39 may have other effects on CLL, including modulation of the disease, via its metabolism of ATP. METHODS: Normal and malignant lymphocytes were isolated from whole blood from patients with CLL and healthy volunteers. Enzyme activity was measured via radio-TLC assay and expression via FACS. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR for CD39 splice variants and platelet function tests were performed on several samples. RESULTS: Functional assays demonstrated that ADPase and ATPase activities were much higher in CLL cells than in total lymphocytes from the normal population on  a per cell basis (p-value < 0.00001). CD39 activity was elevated in stage 0-2 CLL compared to stage 3-4 (p < 0.01). FACS of lymphocytes demonstrated CD39 expression on > 90% of normal and malignant B-lymphocytes and approximately 8% of normal T-lymphocytes. RT-PCR showed increased full length CD39 and splice variant 1.5, but decreased variant 1.3 in CLL cells. Platelet function tests showed inhibition of platelet activation and recruitment to ADP by CLL cells. CONCLUSION: CD39 is expressed and active on CLL cells. Enzyme activity is higher  in earlier stages of CLL and decreased enzyme activity may be associated with worsening disease. These results suggest that CD39 may play a role in the pathogenesis of malignancy and protect CLL patients from thrombotic events."
1581	"Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) in patients with underlying immunodeficiency disorders frequently differs from that in the immune competent population in terms of its clinical behavior and pathologic features. Moreover, differential from Hodgkin-like lymphoid proliferations may be problematic. Topics under review include: (a) CHL posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorders, (b) CHL in HIV/AIDS, (c) Hodgkin variant of Richter syndrome in chronic lymphocytic leukemia in association with fludarabine therapy, (d) CHL in other immunodeficiency states including methotrexate-associated lymphoproliferative disorder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and primary immune deficiencies, and (e) Hodgkin-like lymphoid proliferations including senile Epstein-Barr virus+ B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder. Also under consideration is the pathogenesis of these disorders with an emphasis on the role of Epstein-Barr virus."
1582	"Gene expression in cells is a dynamic process but is usually examined at a single time point. We used gene expression profiling over time to build temporal models  of gene transcription after B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling in healthy and malignant B cells and chose this as a model since BCR cross-linking induces both  cell proliferation and apoptosis, with increased apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) compared to healthy B cells. To determine the basis for this, we examined the global temporal gene expression profile for BCR stimulation and developed a linear combination method to summarize the effect of BCR simulation over all the time points for all patients. Functional learning identified common  early events in healthy B cells and CLL cells. Although healthy and malignant B cells share a common genetic pattern early after BCR signaling, a specific genetic program is engaged by the malignant cells at later time points after BCR  stimulation. These findings identify the molecular basis for the different functional consequences of BCR cross-linking in healthy and malignant B cells. Analysis of gene expression profiling over time may be used to identify genes that might be rational targets to perturb these pathways."
1583	"Fludarabine-based regimens have become an increasingly popular first-line approach for symptomatic patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Compared with chlorambucil, fludarabine alone or in combination with cyclophosphamide or rituximab yields higher response rates, higher complete remission rates, and more durable progression-free survival. Immunotherapy and chemoimmunotherapy also have the potential to increase the depth of remission as assessed by flow cytometry or molecular techniques. An overall survival advantage with any one particular regimen has not yet been demonstrated. Progress with fludarabine-based regimens,  monoclonal antibodies, chemoimmunotherapy, and high-dose therapy for previously untreated patients is reviewed. Fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunoglobulin variable heavy-chain sequencing now permit more individualized risk assessment. Examples of possible treatment algorithms based on risk category are explored. How to tailor treatment based on these newer prognostic factors remains a central, as yet unanswered management question."
1584	"Interphase fluorescent in situ hybridization on unstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (I-FISH-PBMC) is used to detect chromosomal abnormalities such  as 11q-, 13q-, 17p-, and trisomy 12 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A total of 56 samples from 49 patients with CLL were studied using commercially available probes for chromosome regions 11q22.3 (ATM), 13q14 (13S272), 17p13 (p53) and 12 centromere (D12Z3). We compared the results obtained with I-FISH-PBMC and those with I-FISH on TPA (tetradecanoylphorbol acetate; phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate) stimulated peripheral blood cells (I-FISH-TPA) used for conventional cytogenetics, to evaluate the usefulness of I-FISH-TPA. The proportion of abnormal nuclei obtained with the I-FISH-TPA was higher than that found with I-FISH-PBMC (P < 0.001). Consequently, 15 cases with a negative or borderline result with I-FISH-PBMC became positive with I-FISH-TPA for 11q- (n =  2), 13q- (n = 9), and trisomy 12 (n = 4). In all but one of these, chromosomal abnormalities were confirmed by either metaphase FISH or conventional G-banding.  Detection of cytogenetic aberrations thus increased from 51% with I-FISH-PBMC to  78% with I-FISH-TPA. Notably, all 15 of the cases that reached the diagnostic thresholds for 11q-, 13q-, and trisomy 12 had a slight lymphocytosis. An absolute lymphocyte count <8.7 x 10(9)/L was found to be the critical threshold (P = 0.037) below which I-FISH-TPA rather than I-FISH-PBMC should be performed. Not only could I-FISH-TPA detect a higher proportion of abnormal interphase nuclei, but it could also identify abnormal CLL cases that might be overlooked with use of I-FISH-PBMC, especially those with low absolute lymphocyte counts. I-FISH-TPA  is thus a reliable technique for clinical diagnostics in CLL."
1585	"BACKGROUND: Patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) often demonstrate variable responses to similar treatments. It would be highly desirable to develop a personalized therapeutic strategy for selection of appropriate drugs or regimens based on the drug sensitivity profiles of leukemic  cells from individuals. METHODS: We applied a multiparameter flow cytometric drug cytotoxicity assay to evaluate drug effects specifically on B-CLL cells from 43 individuals after leukemic cells were incubated in vitro with fludarabine, chlorambucil, cladribine, or prednisolone. RESULTS: We demonstrated that different B-CLL cell populations from 43 individuals showed a marked variability in drug sensitivity. In vitro resistance  to fludarabine was greatest in B-CLL cells with deletions of p53, a cytogenetic abnormality that is almost invariably associated with a poor therapeutic response clinically. CONCLUSIONS: In vitro drug sensitivity profiles analyzed by a multiparameter flow cytometric cytotoxicity assay may serve as a tool to facilitate individualized selection of appropriate drugs for treatment in B-CLL. Prospective trials will be needed to validate the clinical utility of this flow cytometric cytotoxicity assay."
1586	"Simultaneous involvement of the same anatomical site by two different primary malignant tumors is rare. Cases of hematopoietic malignancies associated with breast and skin neoplasms have been described. The association of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) has been established,  although the cause for this association is still unclear. There are reports of MCC metastatic to lymph nodes involved by CLL. We report the case of a 57-year-old man with history of CLL with concurrent involvement of the arm by CLL and MCC diagnosed on fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNA). To our knowledge, this  is the first reported case of such tumors colliding in a nonlymphoid site, diagnosed by FNA in the English literature."
1587	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) does not result from accumulation of CD5(+) B  cells but, presumably, represents an antigen-driven dynamic process. Autoimmune diseases (AIDs) include hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura and immune neutropenia. In turn, CLL and B-cell lymphoma develop in the frame of an AID. Such reciprocal interactions suggest that similar B cells are involved in both disorders. Phenotypic features (i.e., several membrane markers) and functional characteristics of CD5(+) B cells (i.e., Epstein-Barr virus transformation and expression of apoptotic proteins) distinguish CLL and AID CD5(+) B cells from their normal counterparts. These cells produce often nonpathogenic polyspecific low-affinity autoantibodies, whereas they present the antigen to antiself B or T  cells to feature pathogenic monospecific high-affinity autoantibody. The CD5 molecule itself plays a part by translocating phosphatases to the vicinity of the B-cell antigen receptor, thereby precluding transduction from the B-cell receptor. Such might be the link between CLL and AID, both prevented by the CD5 machinery."
1589	"OBJECTIVE: Although chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) accounts for 25-30% of leukemia cases, little is known about its psychosocial correlates. This study examines anxiety, depression and quality of life (QOL) in a CLL cohort. METHODS: One hundred five patients recruited from a CLL research database were classified into two groups: "watch and wait" or active treatment. The patients completed a mail-in battery of depression, anxiety and QOL measures. RESULTS: There was no statistical difference between depression, anxiety and physical/mental QOL in "watch and wait" versus active-treatment groups. Patients  < or =60 years reported more depression (P=.014) and worse emotional (P=.0001) and social QOL (P=.002). They also had more "watch and wait" anxiety (P=.052). Social and emotional QOL were similar in both newly diagnosed patients and those  diagnosed >6 years ago, although physical QOL worsens with time (P=.05). CONCLUSION: Depression, anxiety and QOL are remarkably similar in "watch and wait" versus actively treated CLL, despite the latter group having, by definition, later stage disease. Patients < or =60 years are more depressed and have reduced emotional and social QOL. Younger "watch and wait" patients are more anxious. Patients diagnosed for more than 6 years have a worse physical QOL, but  their social and emotional QOL are similar to those of newly diagnosed patients."
1590	"The impact of cytogenetic characterization based on chromosome banding analyses and fluorescence in situ hybridization on clinical decision making has increased  dramatically during recent years. Therefore, laboratory techniques have to be optimized to provide reliable results for optimal patient care. In addition, quick and correct results save time and money by preventing unnecessary additional diagnostics and suboptimal treatment approaches. It was our aim to present proposals for standardized protocols to improve the diagnosis, and hence  the treatment outcome, of hematologic malignancies."
1591	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against lymphocytes through the CD-52 receptor, an antigen being found on > 95% of peripheral blood lymphocytes and monocytes, and to a smaller extent on granulocytes. It is an effective immunotherapeutic agent in patients with malignancies such as non-Hodgkin lymphoma, B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and T cell pro- lymphocytic leukemia. Adverse side effects are increasingly recognized in patients receiving alemtuzumab, mainly including fever, rigors, nausea/vomiting,  skin rash; other severe alemtuzumab-related reactions have also been described, such as lymphopenia and neutropenia leading to both opportunistic (e.g. cytomegalovirus) and non-opportunistic infections. Digestive complications have more rarely been described, i.e.: gastroenteritis and peritonitis. We recently observed a case of particular interest as the patient with T cell prolymphocytic  leukaemia treated with alemtuzumab, exhibited symptomatic reactivation of CMV infection and developed subsequently typhlitis."
1593	"Listeria monocytogenes is a common cause of bacterial meningitis in elderly patients and in those with impaired cellular immunity. The most common central nervous system infection caused by L. monocytogenes is acute bacterial meningitis; meningoencephalitis is uncommon and encephalitis is rare. Early diagnosis of L. monocytogenes meningitis is difficult because only 50% of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Gram stains are negative. L. monocytogenes is one of the few central nervous system pathogens associated with red blood cells in the CSF. When L. monocytogenes presents as encephalitis with red blood cells in the CSF, the clinical presentation mimics most closely herpes simplex virus (HSV)-1 encephalitis. Because the therapies for L. monocytogenes and HSV-1 are different, early diagnostic differentiation is clinically important. The CSF lactic acid is  the best way to rapidly differentiate between these two entities; the CSF lactic  acid level is elevated in L. monocytogenes but is not elevated in HSV-1 encephalitis. The case presented is an elderly man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who presented with encephalitis. Advanced age and chronic lymphocytic leukemia predispose him to a wide variety of pathogens, but the rapidity and severity of his clinical presentation made L. monocytogenes and HSV-1 encephalitis the most likely diagnostic possibilities. The CSF Gram stain was negative, but the elevated CSF lactic acid levels with encephalitis and red blood cells in the CSF indicated L. monocytogenes as the most likely pathogen. We present a case of L. monocytogenes encephalitis mimicking HSV-1 encephalitis. While receiving ampicillin therapy, the patient remained unresponsive for more than 1 week and then suddenly regained consciousness and recovered without neurologic sequelae."
1594	"We report on 2 composite lymphomas occurring in elderly patients, morphologically characterized by the combination of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) unspecified and B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma. Immunohistochemistry provided objective confirmation of the coexistence of the 2 malignancies, as did molecular biology by revealing clonal T-cell receptor gamma and immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangements. One of the patients had no history of indolent lymphoma either at the personal and family level, whereas the other showed a strong familial predisposition, his mother and sister having suffered from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Epstein-Barr virus was detected in the PTCL component of 1  case, but was negative in the other. To the best of our knowledge, the simultaneous occurrence of PTCL unspecified and B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma is an exceptional event; the possible pathogenetic correlations between the 2 neoplasms are discussed."
1595	"Leukemic involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) in previously undiagnosed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is very rare. We report the case of a 62-year-old man with neuroborreliosis in which cytologic, immunocytochemical, and flow cytometry analyses revealed the presence of clonal B-lymphocytes in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). After the patient received antimicrobial therapy, his meningeal symptoms cleared up, and the number of cells in the CSF decreased. Monoclonal lymphocytes were still detectable at the same percentage, however, despite systemic chlorambucil therapy. The application of intrathecal dexamethasone therapy led to the disappearance of B-cell CLL (B-CLL)  cells in the CSF. We presumed that the neuroborreliosis enabled the transmigration of leukocytes, including B-CLL cells, across the blood-brain barrier via activation of matrix metalloproteinase 9, an enzyme known to open the blood-brain barrier."
1596	"Paraneoplastic pemphigus is an autoimmune vesiculobullous and erosive mucocutaneous disease associated with an underlying malignancy. Reported malignancies include chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Castleman's disease, sarcomas, and rarely solid tumors. Patients with paraneoplastic pemphigus develop characteristic IgG autoantibodies against several antigens including members of the plakin family, bullous pemphigoid antigen 1, and desmosomal proteins. IgA pemphigus is another recently characterized immunobullous disease that presents as a vesiculopustular eruption  with neutrophilic infiltration and epidermal acantholysis. Mucous membrane involvement is rare. We report what is to our knowledge a unique case with features of both IgA pemphigus and paraneoplastic pemphigus associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
1597	"PURPOSE: To date, only a few studies have evaluated the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) receiving chemotherapy. Therefore, the German CLL Study Group assessed HRQOL in younger patients with advanced CLL receiving first-line chemotherapy with fludarabine or  fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred seventy-five patients younger than 66 years with advanced CLL were randomly assigned to receive either fludarabine alone (fludarabine 25 mg/m2/d for 5 days intravenously [IV], repeated every 28 days) or FC (fludarabine 30 mg/m2/d for 3 days IV plus cyclophosphamide 250 mg/m2/d for 3  days, repeated every 28 days). Six courses of treatment were planned to be administered. The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 was sent to all patients at baseline and after  6, 12, and 24 months. RESULTS: Eighty-nine percent of 362 included patients completed at least one questionnaire (163 fludarabine- and 158 FC-treated patients). Comparing the baseline levels of 249 CLL patients with the general German population, significant differences in nearly all HRQOL scales were assessed between the two  groups. A multivariate analysis showed no significant differences in all HRQOL scales between both arms. In both treatment arms, symptoms such as fatigue, insomnia, and appetite loss improved to lower levels after the end chemotherapy.  Except for lower physical status, no significant difference in HRQOL between male and female patients was evaluated. CONCLUSION: Fludarabine-based treatment seems to improve HRQOL little to moderately in younger patients with advanced CLL. No significant difference between fludarabine- and FC-treated patients was observed."
1598	"Although the immune system is capable of mounting a response against many cancers, that response is insufficient for tumor eradication in most patients due to factors in the tumor microenvironment that defeat tumor immunity. We previously identified the immune-suppressive molecule CD200 as up-regulated on primary B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells and demonstrated negative immune regulation by B-CLL and other tumor cells overexpressing CD200 in vitro. In this study we developed a novel animal model that incorporates human immune cells and human tumor cells to address the effects of CD200 overexpression on tumor cells in vivo and to assess the effect of targeting Abs in the presence  of human immune cells. Although human mononuclear cells prevented tumor growth when tumor cells did not express CD200, tumor-expressed CD200 inhibited the ability of lymphocytes to eradicate tumor cells. Anti-CD200 Ab administration to  mice bearing CD200-expressing tumors resulted in nearly complete tumor growth inhibition even in the context of established receptor-ligand interactions. Evaluation of an anti-CD200 Ab with abrogated effector function provided evidence that blocking of the receptor-ligand interaction was sufficient for control of CD200-mediated immune modulation and tumor growth inhibition in this model. Our data indicate that CD200 expression by tumor cells suppresses antitumor responses and suggest that anti-CD200 treatment might be therapeutically beneficial for treating CD200-expressing cancers."
1601	"Rap1, a member of the Ras superfamily, regulates cytoskeletal changes in lower eukaryots and integrin-mediated adhesion in hematopoietic cells. Sustained activation of Rap1 in mouse hematopoietic stem cells causes expansion of hematopoietic progenitors, followed by a myeloproliferative disorder mimicking chronic myeloid leukemia. Moreover, these mice develop a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder resembling chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Here, we used HEK 293 cells as a tool to examine the molecular effects of Rap1. We observed that a constitutively active Rap1 mutant localized predominantly in the  nucleus. Nuclear localization of endogenous Rap1-GTP was also detected upon physiologic activation. A potential consequence of nuclear localization of Rap1-GTP is the regulation of gene expression. We used a high throughput proteomic approach to identify gene products potentially modulated by Rap1-GTP. Out of 1000 proteins examined, 64 proteins were upregulated and 66 proteins were  downregulated. The differentially expressed gene products belong to cytoskeletal  regulator proteins, signaling molecules, transcription factors, viability regulators, and protein transporters. This analysis provides the first fingerprint of gene product expression regulated by Rap1 and may contribute to our understanding of malignant transformation mechanisms regulated by this small  GTPase."
1602	"Mutational status of immunoglobulin variable region genes (VH-genes) is known as  the strongest predictor of long term prognosis in B-CLL. However, applications in the routine clinical practice are time consuming, and therefore some other predictions are required. In this study, we have compared prognostic values of real time PCR quantification of the expression levels of four genes previously shown to be differentially expressed in V(H)-unmutated and mutated B-CLL subtypes: ZAP-70, ZBTB20, DMD and LPL. The study included 134 B-CLL patients. Expression levels of LPL and DMD genes were significantly correlated to mutational status, while expression levels of of ZAP-70 gene correlated only in CD19+ selected cases (N = 40). No correlation was observed for ZBTB20 gene. Expression levels of LPL and DMD predicted overall survival in the entire cohort  of patients. Prognostic values of LPL gene expression levels were significant even for CLL patients with stage A. Quantitative RT-PCR assays for measuring LPL  gene expression are robust enough to be introduced into routine clinical practice."
1603	"The feasibility and efficacy of flexible, response-adjusted rituximab maintenance therapy in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) was investigated in 12 patients with an at least minor response to four weekly cycles of 375 mg/m(2) of  rituximab induction therapy. Rituximab maintenance therapy consisted of infusions of 100 mg rituximab every 4 weeks. If disease progression occurred, either the rituximab dose was increased or the time between infusions was shortened. Treatment-related side effects led to discontinuation of rituximab maintenance therapy in three cases. Maintenance therapy was successfully conducted for > or =6 months in seven cases; three of these individuals have been on maintenance therapy for >1 year to 3.5 years so far. Long-term toxicity, as determined based  on hematological and immunological parameters, was mild."
1604	"Immunomodulating drugs belong to a new class of therapeutic agents that have immunomodulatory, antiangiogenic and antiproliferative effects. Although the basis of anti-tumour activity of immunomodulating agents are not clear, results of clinical trials have demonstrated impressive activity in certain hemalogical disorders such as multiple myeloma (MM) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). The  peculiar properties of immunomodulating agents prompted investigators to test their role in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The efficacy of single-agent thalidomide in refractory CLL is disappointing, although its combination with fludarabine seems promising. Lenalidomide, a thalidomide analogue, is showing anti-tumour activity with durable response in refractory CLL. These preliminary results represent the basis for investigating the potential of lenalidomide in association with established chemotherapy regimens or as maintenance therapy."
1605	"Cutaneous lesions occur in up to 25% of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). These can be caused by either cutaneous seeding by leukemic cells (leukemia cutis, LC) and other malignant diseases or nonmalignant disorders. Skin infiltration with B-lymphocyte CLL manifests as solitary, grouped, or generalized papules, plaques, nodules, or large tumors. Prognosis in CLL patients with LC is  rather good and many authors claim that it does not significantly affect patients' survival. However, prognosis is poor in patients in whom LC shows blastic transformation (Richter's syndrome) and when leukemic infiltrations in the skin appear after the diagnosis of CLL. Secondary cutaneous malignancies are  also frequent complications in patients with CLL. A higher risk was seen in skin  cancer, for which eightfold higher occurrence has been stated. There are some suggestions that alkylating agents and purine analogs may be associated with an increased incidence of secondary malignancies in CLL. Nonspecific, secondary cutaneous lesions are frequently observed in CLL patients. The most common secondary cutaneous changes seen in CLL are those of infectious or hemorrhagic origin. Other secondary lesions present as vasculitis, purpura, generalized pruritus, exfoliative erythroderma, and paraneoplastic pemphigus. An exaggerated  reaction to an insect bite and insect bite-like reactions have been also observed."
1606	"Activation of telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is essential for unlimited cell growth and plays a critical role in tumorigenesis. We investigated hTERT gene expression in 134 B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cases and evaluated its prognostic value with other prognostic markers (IgVH mutation status, CD38 and ZAP-70 expression). Real-time PCR assays to quantify either all  hTERT transcripts (AT) or only the full length (FL) transcript encoding the functional protein were developed. hTERT-AT levels strongly correlated with hTERT-FT levels (r=0.743, P<0.0001); both inversely correlated with the percentage of IgVH mutation (P<0.005) and were significantly higher in unmutated  than in mutated cases (P=0.004 and P=0.001, respectively). The hTERT values which best discriminated between the unmutated and mutated IgVH cases were 150 and 40 copies for hTERT-AT and hTERT-FL, respectively. Using these cut-off values, there was a significant difference in the survival of patients with high or low hTERT levels (P<0.0001). Unmutated cases with low hTERT levels had an overall survival  close to mutated cases with high hTERT levels. Thus, this work identifies hTERT-RNA level as a new prognostic marker in B-CLL, and may be used to identify  previously unrecognized patient groups with the same IgVH mutation status and different disease outcomes."
1607	"Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is a highly aggressive disease in which the  human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) has been recognized as the etiologic agent. Fludarabine is a purine analog that has demonstrated significant activity in B-cell malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia and indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. This study explored the effects of fludarabine on HTLV-1-infected T cells (MT-1, -2, -4 and HUT102). Fludarabine induced growth  arrest and apoptosis of these cells, as measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylithiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay, cell cycle  analysis and annexin V staining. Moreover, exposure of HTLV-1-infected T cells to fludarabine decreased the levels of X-inhibitor of apoptosis protein in conjunction with inhibition of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)/DNA-binding activity, as measured by Western blot analysis and electrophoretic mobility shift and reporter gene assays, respectively. Further studies found that fludarabine accumulated NF-kappaB and inhibitory subunit of NF-kappaB in cytosole in conjunction with downregulation of NF-kappaB in nucleus, suggesting that fludarabine blocked nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB. Taken together, fludarabine may be useful for treatment of individuals with ATL and other types of cancer in which NF-kappaB plays a role."
1610	"The ligation of CD47 induces the apoptosis of leukemic cells in a caspase-independent manner. We generated a monoclonal antibody against CD47 (mAb-MABL) that possibly induced apoptosis from the ligation of CD47 in CCRF-CEM  and JOK-1 cells in vitro. To confirm whether the ligation of CD47 caused cell death in vivo, we examined the antitumor activity of F(ab')2 of mAb-MABL in two xenograft models: The acute lymphoblastic leukemia (CCRF-CEM) and the B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (JOK-1) cell line. Furthermore, in order to clarify  the apoptotic activity selective for the tumor cells, we examined F(ab')2 of mAb-MABL apoptotic effects on CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor/stem and human endothelial cells. Male SCID mice were intravenously injected with CCRF-CEM (5 x  10(6) cells/mouse) or JOK-1 cells (5 x 10(6) cells/mouse) and intraperitoneally with JOK-1 cells (2 x 10(7) cells/mice). After the implantation of the cells, the mice were intravenously administered the vehicle or the F(ab')2 fragment of mAb-MABL at several doses and the length of survival was measured. F(ab')2 of mAb-MABL markedly prolonged the survival of mice transplanted with CCRF-CEM and JOK-1. Significantly, 40% of the mice intraperitoneally injected with JOK-1 cells became tumor-free when administered F(ab')2 of mAb-MABL, whereas even a high dose of fludarabine only slightly prolonged the median survival time. On the contrary, F(ab')2 of mAb-MABL showed no apoptotic effect on CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor/stem or human endothelial cells. Thus, monoclonal antibodies that cause cell death from the ligation of CD47 could be novel therapeutic agents for  incurable leukemia after further optimization such as humanization or making single chain diabodies."
1611	"Intracellular crystalline deposits of immunoglobulin are occasionally seen in human B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders such as multiple myeloma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and various forms of lymphoma. Even more uncommon is the occurrence of immunoglobulin crystals in benign plasma cells or reactive lymphocytes. Here we describe the histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural features of intracellular immunoglobulin crystals in nonneoplastic plasma cells in a chronic inflammatory lesion in a dog. Microscopically, the intracellular, nonbirefringent eosinophilic crystals were square to rectangular, 2-20 microm long, and caused nuclear displacement to the periphery. The crystal-containing cells, as well as some of the crystals themselves, were positive for lambda light chain. Ultrastructural findings were consistent with a lattice network of protein-molecule alignment. The cause and significance of the crystals is unknown."
1613	"PURPOSE: Whether computed tomography (CT) should be routinely included in the diagnostic work-up in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has not yet been determined. The aim of this study was to analyze the prognostic significance of abdominal CT in patients with CLL in Rai clinical stage 0. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Abdominal CT was performed at diagnosis in 140 patients consecutively diagnosed with CLL in Rai stage 0 disease. RESULTS: An abnormal abdominal CT was found in 38 patients (27%). Abnormal CT correlated with increased bone marrow infiltration (P = .024), high lymphocyte count (P = .001), increased ZAP-70 expression (P = .003), and short lymphocyte doubling time (LDT; P = .007). Patients with abnormal CT progressed more frequently and had a shorter time to progression than those with normal CT (median, 3.5 years v not reached, respectively; P < .001) and required earlier treatment intervention. In a multivariate analysis, only high ZAP-70 expression (relative risk = 3.60) and an abnormal abdominal CT (RR = 2.71) correlated with disease progression. CONCLUSION: In this series, an abnormal abdominal CT was a strong predictor of progression in patients with early-stage CLL. The inclusion of CT scans in the initial work-up of patients with early clinical stage on clinical grounds can, therefore, provide relevant clinical information."
1616	"Recent years have brought major strides to our understanding of prognostic pathobiologic factors in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This has allowed identification of high-risk patients who may benefit from more aggressive therapies, including hematopoietic cell transplantation. High-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation is feasible, and results in encouraging responses, including molecular responses, with low transplant-associated mortality. However, it has failed to show a plateau effect  on survival curves. On the other hand, there is convincing evidence that immunologically mediated graft-versus-leukemia effect of donor T cells are responsible for lowering the incidence of relapse and allowing possible "cure" in allograft recipients, albeit at the expense of high treatment-associated mortality using conventional myeloablation. Reducing the intensity of conditioning regimens has translated into lesser toxicity with reasonable preservation of its curative potential. Autologous or allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation in high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia remain promising and evolving treatment options. Treatment of CLL should consider stratification according to modern prognostic markers."
1617	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by the accumulation of clonal B cells that are resistant to apoptosis as a result of bcl2 oncogene overexpression. Studies were done to determine the mechanism for the up-regulation of bcl-2 protein observed in CD19+ CLL cells compared with CD19+ B  cells from healthy volunteers. The 11-fold higher level of bcl-2 protein in CLL cells was positively correlated with a 26-fold elevation in the cytosolic level of nucleolin, a bcl2 mRNA-stabilizing protein. Measurements of the bcl2 heterogeneous nuclear/bcl2 mRNA (hnRNA)/mRNA ratios and the rates of bcl2 mRNA decay in cell extracts indicated that the 3-fold higher steady-state level of bcl2 mRNA in CLL cells was the result of increased bcl2 mRNA stability. Nucleolin was present throughout the nucleus and cytoplasm of CLL cells, whereas in normal  B cells nucleolin was only detected in the nucleus. The addition of recombinant human nucleolin to extracts of normal B cells markedly slowed the rate of bcl2 mRNA decay. SiRNA knockdown of nucleolin in MCF-7 cells resulted in decreased levels of bcl2mRNA and protein but no change in beta-actin. These results indicate that bcl-2 overexpression in CLL cells is related to stabilization of bcl2 mRNA by nucleolin."
1618	"IGHV3-21-using chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a distinct entity with restricted immunoglobulin gene features and poor prognosis and is more frequently encountered in Northern than Southern Europe. To further investigate this subset  and its geographic distribution in the context of a country (Italy) with both continental and Mediterranean areas, 37 IGHV3-21 CLLs were collected out of 1076  cases enrolled by different institutions from Northern or Central Southern Italy. Of the 37 cases, 18 were identified as homologous (hom)HCDR3-IGHV3-21 CLLs and were found almost exclusively (16 of 18) in Northern Italy; in contrast, 19 nonhomHCDR3-IGHV3-21 cases were evenly distributed throughout Italy. Clinically,  poor survivals were documented for IGHV3-21 CLLs as well as for subgroups of mutated and homHCDR3-IGHV3-21 CLLs. Negative prognosticators CD38, ZAP-70, CD49d, and CD79b were expressed at higher levels in homHCDR3 than nonhomHCDR3-IGHV3-21 cases. Differential gene expression profiling (GEP) of 13 IGHV3-21 versus 52 non-IGHV3-21 CLLs identified, among 122 best-correlated genes, TGFB2 and VIPR1 as down- and up-regulated in IGHV3-21 CLL cases, respectively. Moreover, GEP of 7 homHCDR3 versus 6 nonhomHCDR3-IGHV3-21 CLLs yielded 20 differentially expressed genes, with WNT-16 being that expressed at the highest levels in homHCDR3-IGHV3-21 CLLs. Altogether, IGHV3-21 CLLs, including those with homHCDR3, had a peculiar global phenotype in part explaining their worse clinical outcome."
1619	"Immune-mediated anti-leukemia effects, often termed graft-versus-leukemia (GvL),  operate after bone marrow or blood cell transplants for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Sometimes  the magnitude of this anti-leukemia effect exceeds that of high-dose anti-leukemia drugs and radiation and can result in leukemia cure. We analyzed leukemia relapse data after transplants for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in this context. These data support the notion of a strong GvL effect in CLL. However, as most of these data are from studies of allotransplants, it is uncertain whether GvL operates in settings where the anti-leukemia effector cells and target CLL cells are genetically identical except for leukemia-related mutations. It is also uncertain whether GvL is distinct from GvHD. These potential limitations have important implications on whether immune therapy of CLL will work in non-allotransplant settings."
1621	"Chromosomal aberrations detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on  interphase nuclei are important prognostic markers in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Deletions in 13q14 and in 11q22.3 are two of the most frequent aberrations in this disease entity (55 and 18%, respectively) and are usually effected by interstitial deletions. Here, we report on the case of a 66-year-old  woman with CLL who was analyzed by conventional metaphase cytogenetics as well as fluorescence in situ hybridization. Deletion-specific probes detected a homozygous loss of two anonymous loci in chromosomal band 13q14 in parallel with  a heterozygous loss of the ATM gene located in chromosomal band 11q22.3. Karyotype analysis indicated reciprocal but unbalanced translocations involving chromosomes 3, 11, and 13. Deleted sites on 13q14 appeared to be located within the breakpoint regions of the translocations. We show that mechanisms other than  interstitial deletions may lead to loss of critical chromosomal regions in CLL."
1622	"The caspase proteins are essential for the regulation of normal B cell development and regulation of apoptosis. We investigated five single nucleotide polymorphisms in four key caspase genes, CASP3 [Ex8-280C>A (rs6948) and Ex8+567T>C (rs1049216)], CASP8 Ex14-271A>T (rs13113), CASP9 Ex5+32G>A (rs1052576) and CASP10 Ex3-171A>G (rs3900115) to determine whether they alter risk for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in a population-based case-control study of women in Connecticut (461 cases and 535 controls). Variants in CASP3 and CASP9 were significantly associated with a decreased risk for NHL, particularly follicular lymphoma [e.g. CASP3 Ex8+567T>C odds ratio (OR)(CC+TC) = 0.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.3-0.7; and CASP9 Ex5+32G>A OR(AA+AG) = 0.6, 95% CI = 0.4-1.0].  Further, variants in CASP3, CASP8 and CASP10 were associated with a decreased risk of marginal zone lymphoma and variants in CASP3 and CASP10 were associated with a lower risk of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and related subtypes. The striking protective associations observed for polymorphisms in all four genes for NHL and/or one or more subtypes suggest that genetic variation in CASP genes may  play an important role in the etiology of NHL."
1623	"Autoimmune cytopenia is an important but poorly understood clinical complication  of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/ small lymphocytic lymphoma. We review the pathogenesis, clinical presentation, and management of autoimmune hemolytic anemia, immune thrombocytopenia, and pure red blood cell aplasia in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/ small lymphocytic lymphoma."
1624	"Telomere length was recently reported to correlate with cellular origin of B-cell malignancies in relation to the germinal center (GC). In this report, we measured telomere length by quantitative-PCR in 223 B-cell lymphomas/leukemias and correlated results with immunoglobulin (Ig) mutation status and immunostainings for GC/non-GC subtypes of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Shortest telomeres were found in Ig-unmutated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) [median telomere to single copy gene value (T/S) 0.33], differing significantly to Ig-mutated CLL (0.63). Contrary to this, mantle cell lymphomas (MCLs) exhibited similar telomere lengths regardless of Ig mutation status (0.47). Telomere length differed significantly between GC-like (0.73) and non-GC-like DLBCLs (0.43), and  follicular lymphomas (FLs) had shorter telomeres (0.53) than GC-DLBCL. Hairy cell leukemias, which display Ig gene intraclonal heterogeneity, had longer telomeres  (0.62) than FLs and non-GC-DLBCL, but shorter than GC-DLBCL. We conclude that although DLBCL and CLL subsets can be clearly distinguished, telomere length reflects many parameters and may not simply correlate with GC-related origin."
1626	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized (IgG(1)) rat monoclonal antibody to CD52 antigen and is currently used in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other CD52-positive lymphoproliferative disorders. Various techniques have been developed to measure Alemtuzumab levels in human serum/plasma. The authors report on the validation of a very sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure serum concentrations of the humanized IgG(1) using a rabbit polyclonal antibody specifically produced against the rat sequence of Alemtuzumab after papain digestion. The assay was successfully applied to test the serum samples of patients with B-lymphocyte CLL who received Alemtuzumab subcutaneously. This ELISA assay could be easily used to determine human serum levels of Alemtuzumab pre- and post-treatment to optimize dosing and scheduling and to study the relationship between dose and clinical response."
1627	"BACKGROUND: The human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) molecule exhibits limited tissue distribution, low polymorphism and alternative splicings that generate seven HLA-G isoforms. HLA-G exerts multiple immunoregulatory functions. Recent studies indicate an ectopic up-regulation in tumor cells that may favor their escape from anti-tumor immune responses. This study it is an effort to clarify the presence of HLA-G in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients. METHODS: HLA-G mRNA expression was studied in a pilot study in circulating B-CLL  and also healthy controls by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR using a set of pan-HLA-G primers. RESULTS: RT-PCR was performed on B-cells from 74 B-CLL patients and 12 healthy controls. The data showed HLA-G gene expression in 20% of the B-CLL patients. No  expression of HLA-G could be detected in the healthy control group. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that HLA-G is expressed at the gene level in B cells from B-CLL patients but not in B cells from healthy controls. Further study is required to clarify the role of HLA-G as a regulatory factor that could affect immune response in B-CLL patients."
1628	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), the most common leukemia in the Western world, results from an expansion of a rare population of CD5+ mature B-lymphocytes. Although clinical features and genomic abnormalities in B-CLL have been studied in considerable detail, the molecular mechanisms underlying disease  development has remained unclear until recently. In the last 4 years, several transgenic mouse models for B-CLL were generated. Investigations of these mouse models revealed that deregulation of three pathways, Tcl1-Akt pathway, TNF-NF-kB  pathway, and Bcl2-mediated anti-apoptotic pathway, result in the development of B-CLL. While deregulation of TCL1 alone caused a B-CLL phenotype in mice, overexpression of Bcl2 required aberrantly activated TNF-NF-kB pathway signaling  to yield the disease phenotype. In this article, we present what has been learned from mice with B-CLL phenotype and how these mouse models of B-CLL were used to test therapeutic treatments for this common leukemia."
1630	"Some evidences suggest that telomere restriction fragment length (TRF-L) is an effective indicator of histopathogenesis in B-cell tumors. As histopathogenesis is relevant for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) prognosis, TRF-L was  assessed by Southern blot in 201 patients and compared to variable immunoglobulin heave chain gene mutational status (VH-MS) and to other known prognostic features. Overall survival (OS), time to first treatment (TTFT) and progression-free survival (PFS) were evaluated. Our results indicate the following: (1) TRF-L is heterogeneous among B-CLL patients (median 6014 bp, range 1465-16 762); (2) TRF-L correlates to VH-MS (r(2)=0.1994, P<0.0001) with VH-mutated patients showing long and VH-unmutated short telomeres; however, 41% of VH-unmutated and 5% of VH-mutated patients did not show this correlation and were thus defined as 'discordant'; (3) TRF-L effectively predicts outcome in terms of TTFT, PFS and OS; (4) VH-unmutated discordant patients have a better clinical outcome than VH-unmutated concordant patients (OS P<0.01, PFS P<0.05) and similar to that of VH-mutated patients (OS, PFS P=NS). Compared to VH-unmutated concordant patients, VH-unmutated discordant patients showed no peculiarity in their immunoglobulin rearrangement nor in their flow cytometry or  fluorescence in situ hybridization profile. In conclusion, TRF-L can be helpful to refine prognostication of B-CLL patients, particularly those with a VH-unmutated immunoglobulin sequence."
1631	"CD38 expression is an important prognostic marker in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with high levels of CD38 associated with shorter overall survival. In this  study, we used gene expression profiling and protein analysis of highly purified  cell-sorted CD38(+) and CD38(-) chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells to elucidate a molecular basis for the association between CD38 expression and inferior clinical outcome. Paired CD38(+) and CD38(-) CLL cells derived from the same patient were  shown to be monoclonal by V(H) gene sequencing but despite this, CD38(+) CLL cells possessed a distinct gene expression profile when compared with their CD38(-) sub-clones. Importantly, CD38(+) CLL cells relatively over expressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and appeared to preferentially utilize  an internal autocrine VEGF survival loop. Elevated VEGF expression was associated with increased expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Mcl-1. Inhibition of VEGF receptor signaling also resulted in a reduction in cell viability. In contrast, exogenous VEGF caused a significant increase in CD38(-) CLL cell viability and a  marked induction of Mcl-1; both effects were less obvious in CD38(+) CLL cells. Taken together, our data provide a biological rationale for the poor prognosis of CD38(+) CLL and indicate that both VEGF and Mcl-1 may prove to be useful therapeutic targets."
1632	"Recently developed prognostic tests in early Rai and Binet stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) require considerable technologic expertise and are not available worldwide. Smudge cells are CLL cells ruptured during smear preparation. We hypothesized that smudge cell formation is inversely correlated with expression of vimentin, a cytoskeletal protein and prognostic marker, and that the percentage of smudge cells would predict prognosis in CLL. We reviewed the blood smears of 75 patients with previously untreated early and intermediate-stage CLL (Rai stage 0-II) who were seen at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn, between September 1989 and December 2000. A total of 200 lymphocytes and smudge cells were counted on each slide and the results expressed as a percentage of the total lymphocytes (intact and smudged). The median percentage of smudge cells was 27% (range, 4%-72%). The percentage of smudge cells inversely correlated with vimentin expression (r=-0.57; P=.007). The median percentage of smudge cells was higher in patients with the mutated immunoglobulin heavy chain gene than in those with the unmutated immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (31% vs 13%; P=.02). Patients with less than 30% smudge cells had a median time from diagnosis to initial treatment of 72.7 months, whereas the median time from  diagnosis to initial treatment in patients with 30% or more smudge cells was not  reached (P=.001). The percentage of smudge cells as a continuous variable correlated with overall survival (P=.04). The estimation of smudge cells on a blood smear could be a universally available prognostic test in early-stage CLL."
1633	"Prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) is a rare lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by marked leukocytosis and splenomegaly. PLL accounts for approximately 2% of chronic lymphoid leukemias. The clinical course is progressive in the majority of cases due to the resistance of the disease to conventional chemotherapy. The disease is divided according to the cell of origin into the B- (B-PLL) and T-cell (T-PLL) types. T-PLL and B-PLL are morphologically identical, but lymphadenopathy and skin involvement are more common in T-PLL than in B-PLL. Approximately 80% of cases are of B-cell phenotype. T-PLL has a more aggressive course, poorer response to chemotherapy, and shorter median survival than B-PLL. PLL has poorer prognosis than chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and the patients with static disease for a longer period of time are rare. In general, B-PLL patients have better prognosis than T-PLL patients. PLL is still considered an incurable disease. Similarly to CLL, treatment is not indicated in  asymptomatic patients. In previous decades, splenectomy, splenic irradiation, leucapheresis, and alkylating agents used alone or in combination with other cytotoxic agents have been used for the treatment of PLL. Subsequently, purine nucleoside analogs (fludarabine, cladribine, and pentostatin) have been introduced for the therapy of these disorders. More recently, monoclonal antibodies, especially alemtuzumab, have been found more effective, especially in T-PLL. Finally, high-dose chemotherapy followed by allogenic or autologous stem cell transplantation seems to be an effective, probably curative, strategy for the treatment of selected patients with PLL. In this review, current therapeutic  strategies in PLL are presented."
1634	"New nephelometric immunoassays specific for free immunoglobulin light chains (FLCs) improve detection of monoclonal proteins (M-protein). Initial studies with FLC have focused on multiple myeloma and amyloidosis. The goal of this study was  to evaluate the frequency of monoclonal serum FLC in patients with other B-cell malignancies. Frozen sera from 226 patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) were tested for M-protein by the serum FLC assay and compared with standard protein electrophoresis (PEL) and immunofixation (IF). Overall, 24% (54/226) of samples had a detectable M-protein with 63% of these (34/54) FLC-positive. In 35% (19/54), the M-protein was only detectable by  FLC analysis. Of the 208 NHL patients, 22% (46/208) had a detectable M-protein. Also, 13% (27/208) were positive for FLC and 16% (33/208) had a detectable M-protein by PEL/IF. Twenty-eighty percent (13/46) of NHL patients with M-proteins were detectable only by FLC analysis. Within NHL, the highest incidences of FLC presence were in patients with mantle cell (36%) and small lymphocytic (24%). Among CLL patients, 44% had an M-protein with 39% detected by  FLC and 11% detected by PEL/IF. Notably, in 6 of 8 CLL patients, the M-protein was only detectable by the FLC method. Serum FLC can be detected in a substantial fraction of patients with NHL/CLL, and the FLC technique improves detection of M-proteins when combined with standard PEL/IF. Future studies are warranted to elucidate the role of serum FLC as biomarkers of disease, for monitoring of minimal residual disease, and as a prognostic factor for response and survival."
1637	"The cytokine B lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) mediates its effect through cell-surface receptors BAFF-R, TACI, and BCMA. BLyS receptors are expressed only  on B cells and not present in other normal cells including normal T lymphocytes.  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a B-cell disease and CLL lymphocytes express BLyS receptors. Gelonin, a type 1 ribosome-inactivating toxin, lacks cell membrane binding domain and hence is nontoxic to intact cells. We generated a construct of recombinant gelonin (rGel) fused to BLyS to specifically target quiescent B-CLL lymphocytes. The construct rGel/BLyS specifically binds and internalizes through BAFF-R into CD19(+) B-CLL lymphocytes and induces apoptosis  at nanomolar concentrations. In contrast, rGel alone was not able to internalize  into these leukemic lymphocytes. Mechanistically, the rGel/BLyS construct inhibits protein synthesis with an IC(50) of less than 3 nM compared with more than 5000 nM for rGel toxin alone. This rGel/BLyS-mediated decrease in protein synthesis was associated with a decline in short-lived proteins such as MCL-1 and XIAP, the 2 survival proteins in B-CLL. There was a strong relationship between a decrease in these proteins and the cleavage of PARP, a hallmark feature of apoptosis. Taken together, these data suggest that the rGel/BLyS fusion toxin may have potential therapeutic efficacy for B-CLL patients."
1638	"Chaetocin, a thiodioxopiperazine natural product previously unreported to have anticancer effects, was found to have potent antimyeloma activity in IL-6-dependent and -independent myeloma cell lines in freshly collected sorted and unsorted patient CD138(+) myeloma cells and in vivo. Chaetocin largely spares matched normal CD138(-) patient bone marrow leukocytes, normal B cells, and neoplastic B-CLL (chronic lymphocytic leukemia) cells, indicating a high degree of selectivity even in closely lineage-related B cells. Furthermore, chaetocin displays superior ex vivo antimyeloma activity and selectivity than doxorubicin and dexamethasone, and dexamethasone- or doxorubicin-resistant myeloma cell lines are largely non-cross-resistant to chaetocin. Mechanistically, chaetocin is dramatically accumulated in cancer cells via a process inhibited by glutathione and requiring intact/unreduced disulfides for uptake. Once inside the cell, its anticancer activity appears mediated primarily through the imposition of oxidative stress and consequent apoptosis induction. Moreover, the selective antimyeloma effects of chaetocin appear not to reflect differential intracellular accumulation of chaetocin but, instead, heightened sensitivity of myeloma cells to the cytotoxic effects of imposed oxidative stress. Considered collectively, chaetocin appears to represent a promising agent for further study as a potential antimyeloma therapeutic."
1640	"Multiple myeloma is characterized by increased osteoclast activity that results in bone destruction and lytic lesions. With the prolonged overall patient survival achieved by new treatment modalities, additional drugs are required to inhibit bone destruction. We focused on a novel and more potent structural analog of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug etodolac, known as SDX-308, and its effects on osteoclastogenesis and multiple myeloma cells. SDX-101 is another structural analog of etodolac that is already used in clinical trials for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Compared with SDX-101,  a 10-fold lower concentration of SDX-308 induced potent (60%-80%) inhibition of osteoclast formation, and a 10- to 100-fold lower concentration inhibited multiple myeloma cell proliferation. Bone resorption was completely inhibited by  SDX-308, as determined in dentin-based bone resorption assays. SDX-308 decreased  constitutive and RANKL-stimulated NF-kappaB activation and osteoclast formation in an osteoclast cellular model, RAW 264.7. SDX-308 effectively suppressed TNF-alpha-induced IKK-gamma and IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation and degradation and subsequent NF-kappaB activation in human multiple myeloma cells. These results indicate that SDX-308 effectively inhibits multiple myeloma cell proliferation and osteoclast activity, potentially by controlling NF-kappaB activation signaling. We propose that SDX-308 is a promising therapeutic candidate to inhibit multiple myeloma growth and osteoclast activity and that it should receive attention for further study."
1641	"Recent evidence suggests that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) might occur following a response to an infectious agent. We conducted a population-based study including 4249 CLL patients diagnosed in Denmark from 1977 to 1997 and 15 690 frequency-matched controls to quantify risk of CLL following various airway infections. Through data linkage we gathered information on hospital inpatient/outpatient discharges that listed infections present at least 1 year prior to CLL. Using logistic regression, we calculated odds ratios (ORs) and 95%  confidence intervals (CIs). Personal history of pneumonia was associated with significantly increased CLL risk (OR = 1.4; 1.2-1.8); risk was restricted to 1 to 4.99 years prior to CLL diagnosis (OR = 1.6; 1.2-2.0). Individuals with 3 or more prior pneumonia events had a significant 2.5-fold (1.1-5.6) elevated CLL risk, and risk increased with the number of pneumonia episodes (P(trend) < .001). None  of 9 other respiratory-tract infections was significantly associated with CLL risk. Pneumonia might be a potential CLL trigger or it could represent premalignant immune disruption preceding CLL."
1642	"Expression of ZAP-70 is an important negative prognostic factor in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This protein tyrosine kinase is a key mediator of T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling and is structurally homologous to Syk, which plays an analogous role in B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling. Recent studies indicate that ZAP-70 may participate in BCR signaling as well, but the mechanism  of action is not completely understood. We have now compared antigen receptor-induced activation of ZAP-70 in B cells and T cells by analyzing phosphorylation of critical regulatory tyrosine residues. We show that BCR-mediated activation of ZAP-70 is very inefficient in CLL and lymphoma B cells and is negligible when compared to activation of Syk. Despite the inefficient catalytic activation, the ability of ZAP-70 to recruit downstream signaling molecules in response to antigen receptor stimulation appeared relatively preserved. Moreover, ectopic expression of ZAP-70 enhanced and prolonged activation of several key mediators of BCR signaling, such as the Syk, ERK, and Akt kinases, and decreased the rate of ligand-mediated BCR internalization. We conclude that the role of ZAP-70 in BCR signaling is quite distinct from its role in TCR signaling and is likely mediated by inhibition of events that terminate the signaling response."
1644	"Richter's syndrome occurs in 5-10% of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, either by transformation of the primary neoplastic lymphocyte, or as a distinct B-cell neoplasm. We report a Japanese patient with lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma in  whom a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma developed after treatment with rituximab. Molecular examination on immunoglobulin VH genes revealed that the lymphomas had  arisen in two separate clones. We reviewed clinical case reports in literature, and found 30-40% of cases with Richter's syndrome and composite lymphoma had a second B-cell lymphoma of a different origin."
1645	"OBJECTIVE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells from most patients express  both membrane-bound CD27 (mCD27) and soluble CD27 (sCD27). Expression of sCD27 inhibits CD27-dependent T-cell or CLL-cell activation mediated by its ligand, CD70. In this study, we evaluated whether protease inhibitors could inhibit the release of sCD27 from CLL cells and enhance T-cell activation mediated by CD27-CD70 interaction. METHODS: CLL cells exposed to hydroxamic acid-based matrix metalloprotease (MMP)  inhibitors were evaluated for the release of sCD27 by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunoprecipitation. We examined for phenotypic changes in CLL cells treated with MMP inhibitors by flow cytometry and T-cell activation  by CLL cells was assessed by [(3)H] thymidine incorporation assay and the production of interferon-gamma. RESULTS: Treatment of CLL cells with MMP inhibitors blocked the release of sCD27  to the culture supernatant. In contrast, a non-hydroxamic acid control compound or inhibitors of other proteases, including serine, cysteine, and aspartyl proteases, were ineffective. Furthermore, CLL cells treated with MMP inhibitors expressed significantly higher levels of accessory molecules, such as CD54, CD80, and CD95. Consistent with such changes, we found that CLL cells treated with MMP  inhibitors, but not control treated cells, could stimulate allogeneic and autologous T cells in mixed lymphocyte reactions. CONCLUSION: These data reveal that metalloprotease inhibitors can block production of sCD27, which can interfere with mCD27-CD70 interactions that induce expression of immune costimulatory molecules on CLL B cells. Conceivably, treatment of CLL cells with metalloprotease inhibitors may enhance their potential for stimulating cellular immune recognition of leukemia-associated antigens."
1646	"Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) represent a unique class of therapeutics because of  their exquisite antigen specificity and effector mechanisms. Clinically, antibody-based therapy has increasingly become an established modality for the treatment of cancer. Among the nine mAbs and immunoconjugates approved by the FDA for therapeutic indications in oncological diseases, five are for use in hematological malignancies. Alemtuzumab is approved for B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia; rituximab, an anti-CD20 antibody approved for the treatment of B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, is being tested in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia; and gemtuzumab ozogamicin is marketed for relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia in patients of > 60 years of age. A number of other mAbs are in different stages of clinical development for antileukemia therapy. This article discusses the general aspects and mechanisms of action of therapeutic mAbs, and highlights the development of antibody-based therapies in leukemia."
1647	"Lenalidomide is an immunomodulatory drug, structurally related to thalidomide, which has pleotropic activity, including antiangiogenic and antineoplastic properties. This agent is the product of advances in the understanding of the biology of neoplastic cells, their interaction with the microenvironment and of the underlying molecular pathways. Lenalidomide has shown significant activity in refractory/resistant multiple myeloma, and further studies have shown its activity in other hematologic malignancies with some very encouraging results, especially in subsets of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. This article reviews the data on lenalidomide use in patients with multiple myeloma, as well as in myelodysplastic syndromes, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia."
1648	"Dendritic cells are the most professional antigen-presenting cells to elicit T-cellular responses toward microbial agents and cancer cells. The graft-versus-leukemia effect observed after allogeneic stem cell transplantation  strongly suggests that T lymphocytes play a major role in the rejection of leukemic cells. This graft-versus-leukemia effect might be enhanced through dendritic cell vaccination. The characterization of leukemia-specific antigens eliciting immune responses in the autologous host has prompted researchers and clinicians to broaden the spectrum of dendritic cell vaccines to hematological malignancies. Recently, the focus is on acute myeloid leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This review summarizes data on the administration of autologous and allogeneic dendritic cells to leukemia patients as an interesting  approach in cellular therapy of leukemias."
1649	"Chimeric T-cell receptors (ChTCR), are a fascinating technological step in the field of immunotherapy for orienting the activity of immune cells towards specific molecular targets expressed on the cell surface of various tumors, including hematologic malignancies. The main characteristics of ChTCR are their ability to redirect T-cell specificity and their killing/effector activity toward a selected target in a non MHC-restricted manner, exploiting the antigen binding  properties of monoclonal antibodies. ChTCR are, in fact, artificial T-cell receptors constituted by an antigen-recognizing antibody molecule linked to a T-cell triggering domain. Various hematologic malignancies represent optimal targets for the exploitation of ChTCR, because of the bright expression of specific antigens on the surface of tumor cells. Thus, CD19 and CD20 have been targeted for B-cell lymphoid tumors (acute lymphoblastic leukemia-ALL, lymphomas  and chronic lymphocytic leukemia-CLL), CD33 for myeloid leukemia, and CD30 for lymphomas. Even though technical and safety progresses are still needed to improve the profile of gene transfer and protein expression of ChTCR, phase 1 trials will be carried out in the near future to demonstrate the feasibility of their clinical translation and, it is be hoped, give preliminary indications about their anti-tumor efficacy."
1650	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Chemokine receptors are involved in tumor progression  and several of these receptors, including CXCR3, are expressed by chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells. This study was aimed to examine a possible relationship between CXCR3 expression in CLL and the clinical evolution of the disease. DESIGN AND METHODS: Using flow activated cell sorting (FACS), we analyzed the level of expression of CXCR3 on blood CLL B cells from 76 consecutive patients. The results were correlated with CD38 expression, IgVH gene status and clinical outcome. RESULTS: CXCR3, measured as mean fluorescence intensity (MFI), was unimodally expressed by blood tumor cells at various levels (range, 3.5 to 232.3) but levels within individual patients were remarkably stable over time. Low CXCR3 expression by CLL B cells was strongly associated with Rai disease stages III and IV (p<0.0001) and a pattern of diffuse tumor infiltration of the bone marrow (p<0.0001). In the 28 cases available for genetic studies, low CXCR3 expression also showed good concordance with tumor unmutated IgVH gene status (p<0.04), and  tended to correlate with high CD38 expression (p<0.06). Patients with low CXCR3 expression (MFI < or =15) had a shorter survival (p<0.0001) and, in multivariate  analysis, low CXCR3 expression (MFI pound15) was an independent predictor of poor outcome (hazard ratio 24.5; p<0.01). INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONSL: CXCR3 expression by CLL B cells appears to be stable within individual patients. Tests  to assay this chemokine receptor are cheap and easy to perform and the results could be of prognostic value in CLL."
1651	"Radiotherapy and chemotherapy are known risk factors for second cancers after lymphoma. The role of genetic influences, however, remains largely unknown. We assessed risk of second cancers associated with family history of any cancer in 41,181 patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) (n = 7,476), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) (n = 25,941), or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (n = 7,764), using a large population-based database. Family history of cancer was based on a diagnosis of any cancer in 110,862 first-degree relatives. We found increased relative risk (RR) (1.81, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.04-3.16) of breast cancer among HL patient with positive (vs. negative) family history of cancer. Among CLL patients with positive (vs. negative) family history of cancer, we observed elevated risks of bladder (RR = 3.53, 95% CI: 1.31-9.55) and prostate cancer (RR = 2.15, 95% CI: 1.17-3.94). For NHL patients with positive (vs. negative) family history of cancer, we observed non-significantly increased risk  of non-melanoma skin cancer (RR = 1.94, 95% CI: 0.86-4.38) and lung cancer (RR =  1.99, 95% CI: 0.73-5.39). Our observations suggest that genetic factors, as measured by positive family history of cancer, may be influential risk-factors for selected second tumors following lymphoproliferative disorders."
1652	"PURPOSE: The combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide is an effective regimen for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, it may be  accompanied by increased toxicity compared with fludarabine alone. E2997 is a phase III randomized Intergroup trial comparing fludarabine and cyclophosphamide  (FC arm) versus fludarabine (F arm) alone in patients receiving their first chemotherapy regimen for CLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Symptomatic, previously untreated patients with CLL were randomly assigned to receive either fludarabine 25 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) days  1 through 5 or cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1 and fludarabine 20 mg/m2 IV days 1 through 5. These cycles were repeated every 28 days for a maximum of six cycles. RESULTS: A total of 278 patients were randomly assigned in this Intergroup study. Treatment with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide was associated with a significantly higher complete response (CR) rate (23.4% v 4.6%; P < .001) and a higher overall response (OR) rate (74.3% v 59.5%, P = .013) than treatment with fludarabine as a single agent. Progression-free survival (PFS) was also superior  in patients treated with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide than those treated with fludarabine (31.6 v 19.2 months, P < .0001). Fludarabine and cyclophosphamide caused additional hematologic toxicity, including more severe thrombocytopenia (P = .046), but it did not increase the number of severe infections (P = .812). CONCLUSION: Fludarabine and cyclophosphamide produced an increase in OR and CR, and it improved PFS in patients with previously untreated CLL compared with fludarabine alone and was not associated with an increase in infectious toxicity."
1653	"PURPOSE: Genomic features including unmutated immunoglobulin variable region heavy chain (IgVH) genes, del(11q22.3), del(17p13.1), and p53 mutations have been reported to predict the clinical course and overall survival of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In addition, ZAP-70 and Bcl-2 family proteins have been explored as predictors of outcome. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We prospectively evaluated the prognostic significance of a comprehensive panel of laboratory factors on both response and progression-free survival (PFS) using samples and data from 235 patients enrolled onto a therapeutic trial. Patients received either fludarabine (FL; n = 113) or fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC; n = 122) as part of a US Intergroup randomized trial for previously untreated CLL patients. RESULTS: Complete response (CR) rates were 24.6% for patients receiving FC and 5.3% for patients receiving FL (P = .00004). PFS was statistically significantly  longer in patients receiving FC (median, 33.5 months for patients receiving FC and 19.9 months for patients receiving FL; P < .0001). The occurrence of del(17p13.1) (hazard ratio, 3.428; P = .0002) or del(11q22.3) (hazard ratio, 1.904; P = .006) was associated with reduced PFS. CR and overall response rates were not significantly different based on cytogenetics, IgVH mutational status, CD38 expression, or p53 mutational status. Expression of ZAP-70, Bcl-2, Bax, Mcl-1, XIAP, Caspase-3, and Traf-1 was not associated with either clinical response or PFS. CONCLUSION: These results support the use of interphase cytogenetic analysis, but not IgVH, CD38 expression, or ZAP-70 status, to predict outcome of FL-based chemotherapy. Patients with high-risk cytogenetic features should be considered for alternative therapies."
1657	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a frightening diagnosis which we believe is mistakenly applied to patients who will live their whole lives without symptoms referable to this diagnosis and never require treatment for it. Changes in the threshold of lymphocytosis required for the diagnosis have led to many more people being inappropriately diagnosed. In addition, modern prognostic factors have enabled us to predict with a fair degree of accuracy which patients presenting with a lymphocytosis will have a benign course and which will require  treatment. We propose a new category of benign monoclonal lymphocytosis be recognized, better to reflect reality."
1658	"A population-based case-control study of 649 leukemia cases and 1771 controls carried out in 11 Italian areas, offered the opportunity to evaluate the relationship between alcohol consumption and leukemia risk. For all leukemias, acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we found a non-significantly inverse association for  moderate levels of total alcohol and wine intake, but increased risks at high levels, with, in most cases, significant trend effects (odd ratios (OR) for all leukemias in the lowest quartile of total alcohol consumption [0.1-9.0 g/day of ethanol] versus never-drinker = 0.73; 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) = 0.51-1.03; OR in the highest quartile [> 31.7 g/day] = 1.15; 95% CI = 0.82-1.63;  p of the linear trend test = 0.007). For chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), we found a non-significantly positive association for all levels of total alcohol and wine intake, and a significant positive linear trend effect (p = 0.03) for wine intake (OR for 0.1-9.0 g/day of ethanol intake from wine = 1.34; 95% CI = 0.61-2.94; OR  in the highest quartile of wine intake [> 27.7 g/day] = 2.13; 95% CI = 1.01-4.50). No consistent dose-response was detected analysing duration of alcohol consumption for any leukemia subtypes. In conclusion, even though our study did not show a clear association between alcohol intake and leukemia risk,  some of the patterns of the risk estimates (a possible J-shaped dose-response curve between alcohol intake and ALL, AML, and CLL risks, and the positive association between alcohol and CML), may be suggestive."
1659	"Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is a tumor antigen expressed in various malignant tumors including solid tumors and hemopoietic neoplasias but no or weak expression in normal tissues. The aim of this study is to determine the frequency and the clinical importance of PRAME expression in chronic myeloid  leukemia (CML)/chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPD) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PRAME mRNA was measured by real time RT-PCR in 88 cases with chronic leukemia (CL) and 42 controls. Seventy cases had CML/CMPD (56  had chronic phase (CP)-14 had accelerated/blastic phase disease (AP/BP) and 18 cases had CLL (11 had early stage (Rai 0-I-II) and 7 had late stage (Rai III-IV). Mann Whitney U, Wilcoxon and Kruskal Wallis tests were used for statistical analyses. Twenty-four of 70 (34%) cases with CML/CMPD and 5 of 18 (28%) cases with CLL showed PRAME expression. Totally 29 of 88 cases showed PRAME expression  (33%). However, only two controls showed weak PRAME expression. The difference for PRAME mRNA between the CLs and controls was significant (p = 0.000). PRAME (+) and PRAME (-) cases were not different for age, Hb, Hct, WBC count, platelet  count, stage of the disease and response to therapy. PRAME was monitorised in eight cases during follow-up: in three cases PRAME was negative at CP and expression developed at the AP/BP disease. PRAME was positive at the beginning in five cases (4 CML-1CLL) and expression disappeared after chemotherapy. In conclusion, PRAME is detected in one third of the cases with CLs. PRAME mRNA changes may be detected during the progression of these disorders and/or after therapy. PRAME mRNA may be a useful marker to detect the minimal residual disease (MRD) and to determine the response to therapy in CLs."
1660	"We have reported previously that R-enantiomer of etodolac (R-etodolac), which is  under investigation in phase 2 clinical trials in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, induces potent cytotoxicity at clinically relevant concentrations in multiple myeloma (MM) cells. In this study, we demonstrated that SDX-308 (CEP-18082), a novel analog of etodolac, has more potent cytotoxicity than R-etodolac against both MM cell lines and patient MM cells, including tumor cells resistant to conventional (dexamethasone, doxorubicine, melphalan) and novel (bortezomib) therapies. SDX-308-induced cytotoxicity is triggered by caspase-8/9/3 activation  and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage, followed by apoptosis. SDX-308 significantly inhibits beta-catenin/T-cell factor pathway by inhibiting nuclear translocation of beta-catenin, thereby downregulating transcription and expression of downstream target proteins including myc and survivin. Neither interleukin-6 nor insulin-like growth factor-1 protect against growth inhibition  triggered by SDX-308. Importantly, growth of MM cells adherent to bone marrow (BM) stromal cells is also significantly inhibited by SDX-308. Our data therefore indicate that the novel etodolac analog SDX-308 can target MM cells in the BM milieu."
1661	"The tumoral clone of Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) shows a wide morphological heterogeneity, which ranges from B lymphocytes (BL) to plasma cells (PC). By means of genome-wide expression profiling we have been able to identify  genes exclusively deregulated in BL and PC from WM, but with a similar expression pattern in their corresponding cell counterparts from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM), as well as normal individuals. The differentially expressed genes have important functions in B-cell differentiation and oncogenesis. Thus, two of the genes downregulated in WM-BL were IL4R, which plays a relevant role in CLL B-cell survival, and BACH2, which participates in the development of class-switched PC. Interestingly, one of the upregulated genes in WM-BL was IL6. A set of four genes was able to discriminate clonal BL from WM  and CLL: LEF1 (WNT/beta-catenin pathway), MARCKS, ATXN1 and FMOD. We also found deregulation of genes involved in plasma cell differentiation such as PAX5, which was overexpressed in WM-PC, and IRF4 and BLIMP1, which were underexpressed. In addition, three of the target genes activated by PAX5 - CD79, BLNK and SYK - were upregulated in WM-PC. In summary, these results indicate that both PC and BL from WM are genetically different from the MM and CLL cell counterpart."
1663	"We describe an unusual case of composite lymphoma (CL) in the orbit. The clinical history and biopsy specimen of an 82-year-old woman with a right orbital mass were evaluated. The orbital biopsy contained a dense lymphocytic infiltration and nodules of large lymphocyte that immunostained positive for CD20. Flow cytometric immunophenotyping showed two distinct populations of cells, confirming the diagnosis of a simultaneous follicular lymphoma (FL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL). The patient was treated with CD20  antibody (rituximab) and is in remission at 3 months follow-up."
1664	"The authors provide a review of current knowledge of lymphocytosis in nonneoplastic conditions. They conclude that the list of major differentials for  persistent nonneoplastic lymphocyte expansion in dogs and cats is short and that  most of these conditions are relatively uncommon. Persistent lymphocytosis of small, mature, or reactive lymphocytes is most commonly the result of chronic lymphocytic leukemia or lymphoma. The first step in distinguishing nonneoplastic  from neoplastic lymphocytosis is immunophenotyping by flow cytometry to determine the phenotypic diversity of the circulating cells. Clonality testing using the polymerase chain reaction for antigen receptor rearrangements assay is a useful second step in cases in which the phenotype data are equivocal. Once the diagnosis of malignancy has been established, the immunophenotype also provides prognostic information in dogs."
1665	"BACKGROUND: Both mechanistic features and recent correlative findings suggest a potential role for protein kinase C-beta (PKC-beta) in tumor pathogenesis, particularly in B-cell malignancies. To evaluate the role of this gene in lymphoid malignancies, we analyzed global gene expression data to quantify PKC-beta expression across diagnostic groups and, when possible, determined correlations between PKC-beta expression and survival. RESULTS: Our analysis showed that the level of PKC-beta expression was highest in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and follicular lymphoma. Within diffuse large-B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), PKC-beta expression was significantly higher in activated B-cell- like subtype than germinal center B-cell- like subtype (P < 0.0001). Elevated PKC-beta appeared to be associated with worse survival in both of these  subtypes. When analyzed within clinically defined risk groups established by the  International Prognostic Index (IPI), PKC-beta expression was lowest in patients  with low IPI scores (0-1). Within intermediate- and high-risk IPI groups, elevated PKC-beta expression was associated with worse survival, suggesting that  PKC-beta may expand the prognostic value of the IPI. Results of global gene expression analyses of DLBCL samples corroborate previous observations that anti-apoptosis, cell proliferation, and B-cell proliferation signaling pathways are functionally related to PKC-beta. CONCLUSION: We present a first detailed pharmacogenomics report comparing PKC-beta mRNA expression across different lymphoid malignancies and evaluating it as an outcome predictor. Our findings suggest that DLBCL patients with elevated PKC-beta have a worse prognosis, indicating that further evaluation of PKC-beta as a chemotherapeutic target for lymphoid malignancies is warranted."
1666	"Somatic mutations of immunoglobulin genes characterize mature memory B cells, and intraclonal B-cell diversification is typically associated with expansion of B-cell clones with greater affinity for antigen (antigen drive). Evidence for a role of antigen in progression of intraclonal chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  cell diversification in patients with mutated immunoglobulin genes has not been previously presented. We performed a single-cell analysis of immunoglobulin heavy and light chains in 6 patients with somatically mutated CLL-cell immunoglobulin genes and identified 2 patients with multiple related (oligoclonal) subgroups of  CLL cells. We constructed genealogic trees of these oligoclonal CLL-cell subgroups and assessed the effects of immunoglobulin somatic mutations on the ratios of replacement and silent amino acid changes in the framework and antigen-binding regions (CDRs) of the immunoglobulin heavy and light chains from  each oligoclonal CLL-cell population. In one subject, the amino acid changes were consistent with an antigen-driven progression of clonally related CLL-cell populations. In the other subject, intraclonal diversification was associated with immunoglobulin amino acid changes that would have likely lessened antigen affinity. Taken together, these studies support the hypothesis that in some CLL cases intraclonal diversification is dependent on antigen interactions with immunoglobulin receptors."
1667	"The gradual accumulation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells is presumed to derive from proliferation centers in lymph nodes and bone marrow. To  what extent these cells possess the purported antiapoptotic phenotype of peripheral B-CLL cells is unknown. Recently, we have described that, in B-CLL samples from peripheral blood, aberrant apoptosis gene expression was not limited to protective changes but also included increased levels of proapoptotic BH3-only member Noxa. Here, we compare apoptosis gene profiles from peripheral blood B-CLL (n=15) with lymph node B-CLL (>90% CD5+/CD19+/CD23+ lymphocytes with Ki67+ centers; n=9). Apart from expected differences in Survivin and Bcl-xL, a prominent distinction with peripheral B-CLL cells was the decreased averaged level of Noxa in lymph nodes. Mcl-1 protein expression showed a reverse trend. Noxa expression could be reduced also in vitro by CD40 stimulation of peripheral  blood B-CLL. Direct manipulation of Noxa protein levels was achieved by proteasome inhibition in B-CLL and via RNAi in model cell lines. In each instance, cell viability was directly linked with Noxa levels. These data indicate that suppression of Noxa in the lymph node environment contributes to the persistence of B-CLL at these sites and suggest that therapeutic targeting of Noxa might be beneficial."
1668	"Chronic activation through Toll-like receptors (TLR) occurs in a number of pathologic settings, but has not been studied to the same extent as primary activation. TLR7, expressed by B cells and some dendritic cells, recognizes molecular patterns associated with viruses that can be mimicked by synthetic imidazoquinolines. In response to primary stimulation with the imidazoquinoline,  S28690, human mononuclear cells produced tumor necrosis factor-alpha, but were unable to do so upon restimulation with S28690. This state of "tolerization" lasted at least 5 days. Using chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cells as a model to  facilitate biochemical analysis, the tolerized state was found to be associated with altered receptor components, including down-regulated expression of TLR7 mRNA and decreased levels of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1. Tolerization was characterized by a transcriptionally regulated block in stress-activated protein kinase and nuclear factor kappaB activation, with relatively preserved activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Tolerized chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells were found to be more sensitive to cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents, in part through altered stress-activated protein kinase signaling pathways. This property of the TLR7-tolerized state may  potentially be exploited in the treatment of B cell cancers."
1670	"Richter transformation is defined as a diffuse large cell lymphoma, occurring by  transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We present a 64-year-old man with a history of CLL and a left parieto-occipital transtentorial extra-axial mass. The patient underwent CT and MR imaging, demonstrating a large dural-based  mass with extracranial extension, which occluded the left transverse sinus. Biopsy of the mass proved a pathologic diagnosis of diffuse large cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, consistent with Richter transformation of CLL."
1671	"We compared 1 subjective and 5 objective flow cytometric methods to evaluate zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) expression in relation to immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region (IgVH) gene mutational status in 154 samples from 125 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). ZAP-70 expression determined by all methods used correlated with IgVH gene mutational status, but none of them demonstrated high concordance rates. Of the objective methods, ZAP-70 staining determined as a ratio of molecules of equivalent soluble fluorochrome intensity in CLL cells to that in normal B cells (ZAP-70+ staining in IgVH germline cases,  59%; ZAP-70- in IgVH mutated cases, 75%) or T cells (ZAP-70+ in IgVH germline cases, 66%; ZAP-70- in IgVH mutated cases, 57%) provides the best combination for assigning ZAP-70+ status to IgVH germline and ZAP-70- status to IgVH mutated cases. The subjective method based on ZAP-70 expression in natural killer/T cells gave a similar result, but reproducibility between laboratories may be difficult. Further studies on ZAP-70 expression in relation to clinical parameters may address whether ZAP-70 is an independent prognostic marker for CLL."
1672	"BACKGROUND: Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia occurs frequently in patients with immunodeficiency syndromes, especially AIDS. Approximately 5% of AIDS patients have atypical granulomatous histology. CASE REPORT/METHODS: A 75-year-old woman with chronic lymphocytic leukemia was treated with alemtuzumab (campath-1H) 3 times weekly for 12 weeks. After completion of therapy she presented with dyspnea, hypoxemia, and bilateral infiltrates. Bronchoscopy with biopsy revealed Pneumocystis organisms with granulomatous history. She responded well to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. RESULTS/LITERATURE REVIEW: Our literature review identified 19 patients without AIDS who had granulomatous Pneumocystis infection. These patients often had nodular infiltrates on x-rays and negative bronchoalveolar lavage study findings. Most patients required open lung biopsies. Histologic specimens frequently revealed necrosis. These patients responded well to therapy. CONCLUSION: The limited information available from these studies suggests that these patients have immune reconstitution-like syndrome related to either increasing numbers of CD4+ lymphocytes following therapeutic suppression or impaired modulation of CD4+ function. This unusual clinical presentation may delay diagnosis and effective therapy."
1673	"We studied the cases of 353 patients with lymphoma involving the ocular adnexa diagnosed at the Massachusetts General Hospital between 1974 and 2005. The patients included 153 males and 200 females, aged 7 to 95 years, with a mean age  of 64 years. In 277 cases, there was no known history of lymphoma. Seventy-six patients had a history of lymphoma, with the ocular adnexa being involved at relapse or with progression of the previously diagnosed lymphoma. The patients had marginal zone lymphoma (182 cases), follicular lymphoma (80 cases), mantle cell lymphoma (18 cases), small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (13 cases), lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (4 cases), splenic marginal zone lymphoma  (2 cases), low-grade B cell, not subclassified (19 cases), precursor B lymphoblastic lymphoma (3 cases), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (26 cases), and 1 case each of high-grade B-cell lymphoma, not subclassified, peripheral T-cell lymphoma, unspecified type, extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type, and Hodgkin lymphoma, nodular sclerosis type. Almost all marginal zone lymphoma patients (168 of 182, 92%) had primary ocular adnexal lymphoma. Fourteen marginal zone lymphoma patients (8%) had a prior history of lymphoma, usually arising in another extranodal site. Twenty-five of 80 (31%) follicular lymphoma patients had a prior history of lymphoma, usually arising in lymph nodes. Patients with mantle cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, and splenic marginal zone lymphoma almost always had a prior history of lymphoma or were known to have widespread disease at the time of diagnosis of ocular adnexal  lymphoma. A subset of the diffuse large B-cell lymphomas were associated with large destructive masses involving adjacent structures such as paranasal sinuses, raising the possibility that they may have arisen from one of the adjacent structures and involved the ocular adnexa by direct extension. The relatively high proportion of low-grade lymphoma, not subclassified, highlights the difficulty that may arise in distinguishing different types of low-grade lymphoma, particularly when biopsies are small and artifactually distorted. Ocular adnexal lymphoma is primarily a disease of older adults, with a slight female preponderance. Most lymphomas are low-grade B-cell lymphomas, with marginal zone lymphoma being by far the most common type. Marginal zone lymphoma  typically involves the ocular adnexa primarily, whereas other types of low-grade  B-cell lymphoma often involve the ocular adnexa secondarily. High-grade B-cell lymphomas only occasionally involve the ocular adnexa, and T-cell lymphoma, NK-cell lymphoma, and Hodgkin lymphoma are only rarely encountered in this site."
1675	"EHEB leukemic cells, which are derived from a patient suffering B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), display intermediate sensitivity to the purine analogue 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CdA). Because the mitogen-activated protein  kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway can rescue cancer cells from apoptotic signals, we investigated MAPK/ERK signaling in EHEB cells in response to CdA. We observed that CdA, at concentrations around its IC50, dose- and time-dependently increased the phosphorylation state of ERK 1/2 (p-ERK), indicating an activation of the MAPK/ERK pathway. This activation required CdA metabolism and de novo protein synthesis, and was independent on caspase activation. Interruption of ERK signaling, using the specific MEK inhibitors U-0126 and PD-98059, significantly enhanced CdA cytotoxicity, evaluated by the MTT assay. Drug interaction analysis showed synergism in the majority of combinations between CdA and MEK inhibitors tested. MEK inhibitors also dramatically increased apoptosis induced by CdA alone, evaluated by caspase-3 activation and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage. Collectively, these observations show that ERK 1/2 activation elicited by CdA serves as a cytoprotective function and suggest that inhibitors of this pathway could be combined with CdA in the treatment of selected hematological malignancies."
1676	"Recurrent genomic aberrations are important prognostic parameters in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). High-resolution 10k and 50k Affymetrix SNP arrays were evaluated as a diagnostic tool for CLL and revealed chromosomal imbalances in 65.6% and 81.5% of 70 consecutive cases, respectively. Among the prognostically important aberrations, the del13q14 was present in 36 (51.4%), trisomy 12 in 9 (12.8%), del11q22 in 9 (12.8%), and del17p13 in 4 cases (5.7%). A prominent clustering of breakpoints on both sides of the MIRN15A/MIRN16-1 genes indicated the presence of recombination hot spots in the 13q14 region. Patients with a monoallelic del13q14 had slower lymphocyte growth kinetics (P=.002) than patients with biallelic deletions. In 4 CLL cases with unmutated VH genes, a common minimal 3.5-Mb gain of 2p16 spanning the REL and BCL11A oncogenes was identified, implicating these genes in the pathogenesis of CLL. Twenty-four large (>10 Mb) copy-neutral regions with loss of heterozygosity were identified in 14 cases. These regions with loss of heterozygosity are not detectable by alternative methods and may harbor novel imprinted genes or loss-of-function alleles that may be important for the pathogenesis of CLL. Genomic profiling with SNP arrays is a convenient and efficient screening method for simultaneous genome-wide detection of chromosomal aberrations."
1677	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most prevalent form of leukemia in adults in western countries. A genome scan of CLL-prone families revealed a lod score of one in band 13q22.1. To investigate this finding, we selected 6 CLL families consisting of 63 individuals (CLL affected, n=19; unaffected, n=44) for  fine mapping of a 23-megabase region in 13q14.2-q22.2. Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) revealed 13q14 deletion in 85% (11/13) of CLL patients. Four CLL families shared a 3.68-Mb minimal region in 13q21.33-q22.2. Two asymptomatic siblings who shared the 13q21.33-q22.2 at-risk haplotype exhibited CD5+ monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) on flow cytometry. One of these individuals also had a 13q14 deletion by FISH. These 2 individuals with MBL shared the at-risk haplotype with their CLL-affected relatives, providing further evidence of the relationship between CLL and MBL, as well as of the biologic significance of this novel region. Using direct DNA sequencing analysis, we screened 13 genes for mutations, but no frameshift or nonsense mutations were detected. Our studies revealed that 11 of the 13 genes in the candidate region were expressed in immune tissues, supporting their functional relevance in investigations of familial CLL. In conclusion, we identified a novel candidate region that may predispose to familial CLL."
1678	"Signals through the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) are important for the survival  of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Therefore, factors that influence these signals have important pathophysiological roles in this disease. One key mediator of BCR signaling is protein kinase C beta (PKCbeta), which regulates the activation of I-kappaB kinases and the deactivation of Bruton tyrosine kinase within the signaling pathways initiated by BCR engagement. The present study demonstrates that overexpression of the PKCbetaII isoform is a feature of CLL cells and that activity of this enzyme strongly correlates with CLL cell response to BCR engagement. Thus, intracellular Ca2+ release and increases in cell survival after BCR cross-linking were significantly greater in CLL patients with  low levels than in CLL patients with high levels of active PKCbetaII. Furthermore, BCR-induced Ca2+ fluxes could be restored in CLL patients with high  levels of active PKCbetaII by pretreating the cells with the PKCbeta-specific inhibitor LY379196. Conversely, BCR-mediated intracellular Ca2+ release could be  inhibited in CLL cells with low levels of active PKCbetaII by pretreatment with the PKC agonist bryostatin. Taken together, these results demonstrate that overexpressed active PKCbetaII plays a role in the regulation and outcome of BCR  signals that can be important for the progression of CLL."
1679	"The apoptosome is a multiprotein complex mediating the mitochondrial pathway of cell death. Its importance during development has been clearly demonstrated by knocking out key genes in mouse. APAF1 is the core protein of the apoptosome and  its dosage is also critical in various cancer types, i.e., melanoma, germ line tumor, gastrointestinal cancer and B-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This is generally due to inactivation of the APAF1 locus by epigenetic phenomena or by activity of promoter regulators. We investigated the putative roles of the apoptosome in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). We found that both APAF1 mRNA and protein are dysregulated in human PDAC samples. Similarly, several PDAC  cell lines exhibited variable levels of both APAF1 protein and mRNA. The response to cell death induction and its biochemical features were assessed by treatment of each line with commonly used chemotherapeutic agents. We found that the apoptosome pathway was not functional in most cell lines upon cytochrome c release from mitochondria. In addition, we restored APAF1 and Caspase-9 dosage in Panc-1 cells, where the apoptosome is downregulated, by overexpressing the murine cDNA of the two molecules, and we improved the death response to chemotherapeutic agents."
1680	"BACKGROUND: High-density microarrays are powerful tools for expression analysis of thousands of genes simultaneously; however, experience with low-density microarrays in gene expression studies has been limited. METHODS: We developed an optimized procedure for gene expression analysis based on a microarray containing 538 oligonucleotides and used this procedure to analyze neoplastic cell lines and whole-blood samples from healthy individuals and patients with different hematologic neoplasias. Hierarchical clustering and the Welch t-test with adjusted P values were used for data analysis. RESULTS: This procedure detects 0.2 fmol of mRNA and generates a linear response  of 2 orders of magnitude, with CV values of <20% for hybridization and label replicates. We found statistically significant differences between Jurkat and U937 cell lines, between blood samples from 15 healthy donors and 59 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples, and between 6 acute myeloid leukemia patients and 4 myelodysplastic syndrome patients. A classification system constructed from the expression data predicted healthy or CLL status from a whole-blood sample with a 97% success rate. CONCLUSION: Transcriptional profiling of whole-blood samples was carried out without any cellular or sample manipulation before RNA extraction. This gene expression analysis procedure uncovered statistically significant differences associated with different hematologic neoplasias and made possible the construction of a classification system that predicts the healthy or CLL status from a whole-blood sample."
1681	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by high individual variability in clinical course and the need for therapy. Differentiation of prognostic subgroups is based primarily on the mutation status of the genes for the variable region of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGHV). The time- and labor-intensive nature of this analysis necessitates the use of easily applicable surrogate markers. METHODS: We developed a quantitative PCR (qPCR) method for determining lipoprotein lipase (LPL) mRNA expression and analyzed samples of lysed whole blood and CD19-selected cells from 50 CLL patients. Associations of LPL and ZAP70 [zeta-chain (TCR) associated protein kinase 70 kDa] expression with IGHV mutation status, overall survival (OS), and treatment-free survival (TFS) were investigated. RESULTS: Lysed samples of whole blood and CD19-selected cells were similar with respect to LPL expression (R = 0.88; P <0.0001). LPL expression was significantly associated with IGHV mutation status [chi(2)(1) = 15.3; P <0.0001] and showed an  89.3% specificity, a 68.2% sensitivity, an 83.3% positive predictive value, and a 78.1% negative predictive value for IGHV mutation status. LPL expression was significantly associated with both OS and TFS in log-rank tests (both P values =  0.002). LPL-positive patients had a significantly shorter median TFS time (23 months) than LPL-negative patients (88 months) (P = 0.002). CONCLUSIONS: LPL mRNA expression is a valuable prognostic marker in CLL. The method does not require cell purification, and its applicability with archived samples facilitates its use in the clinical routine and other studies."
1682	"B-cell disorders include a large group of malignant and nonmalignant diseases with tremendous variation in incidence, natural history, treatment, and prognosis. This article will focus on adult idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Clinicians must individualize treatment for ITP and CLL to each patient. Observation without intervention is appropriate for some patients, whereas immediate treatment is indicated for others. Deciding when to treat and which agents to use can be difficult, but new  therapeutic options are emerging for both conditions."
1683	"Although there have been no randomized trials comparing the outcome of stem cell  transplantation (SCT) with standard chemotherapy for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), increasingly, both autologous and allogeneic SCT approaches are being explored in this disease. Clinical trials have demonstrated  that these approaches are feasible, but current data suggest that autologous transplantation is not curative and myeloablative SCT, although offering the potential for cure, is associated with high treatment-related mortality. There is a clear demonstration of a graft-versus-leukemia effect in CLL, with encouraging  results seen after SCT with reduced-intensity conditioning. Because no other treatment modalities are currently capable of improving survival in this disease, the treatment of choice for younger patients with poor-risk CLL may well be SCT,  but continued enrollment of appropriate patients into well-designed clinical trials is vital to compare advances in SCT with the advances occurring in chemoimmunotherapy in CLL."
1684	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is truly a heterogeneous disease, in which individual outcomes range from no need for therapeutic intervention to very aggressive, nonresponding disease. The ability to develop clear, sound prognostic information that permits reliable counsel must be our goal. A combination of easily obtainable, traditional prognostic parameters (bone marrow infiltration patterns, beta-2 microglobulin) along with the clinical Rai stage is still frequently used in the initial risk stratification of patients with CLL. However, novel parameters such as defects detectable on fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), expression levels of CD38 and ZAP-70, and immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region status can add significant prognostic information about a given patient with CLL. How to incorporate these newer tests within the context of the  more traditional parameters for a patient with a new diagnosis is the focus of significant continuing research. The outcome of this research has implications for predicting clinical progression rates and the response and duration of response to therapy, as well as for highlighting high-risk patients who will need earlier or more specific treatment approaches."
1686	"OBJECTIVE: Human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is the catalytic subunit of telomerase. In B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), telomerase activity is increased in about 75% of patients. The aim of this study was to analyze whether B-CLL patients with telomerase-positive leukemic cells had naturally occurring, telomerase-specific T cells that might be utilized for immune-mediated lysis of autologous tumor cells. METHODS: Spontaneous T-cell immunity and cytotoxicity against hTERT was explored  in B-CLL. Nineteen of 25 B-CLL patients (76%) expressed hTERT (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction) and 10 were selected for specific T-cell analysis against hTERT. RESULTS: The stimulation index (SI) of T cells from seven telomerase-positive patients stimulated with a 16aa hTERT peptide (611-626) loaded onto dendritic cells (DC) was 33.9 +/- 15.4 (mean SI +/- standard error of mean) and 13.2 +/- 5.6 against a Ras control peptide (p = 0.05), whereas the corresponding SI values for three telomerase-negative patients were 5.3 +/- 5.3 against the hTERT 611-626 peptide and 10.3 +/- 6.5 against the Ras peptide, respectively; and for three healthy controls, 5.4 +/- 0.9 against the hTERT 611-626 peptide and 4.5 +/- 1.0 against the Ras peptide (both not significant). Blocking experiments revealed that the specific responses were major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and MHC class II restricted. DC pulsed with the hTERT-peptide generated MHC class I-restricted, hTERT-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in six of seven telomerase-positive patients; mean cytotoxicity of hTERT-stimulated T cells was 49.8% +/- 9.3% vs 13.1 +/- 2.9% for Ras-stimulated T cells (p < 0.05). In three of three telomerase-negative patients, no hTERT-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes  could be expanded. CONCLUSION: Telomerase-positive B-CLL patients have spontaneously occurring cytotoxic hTERT-specific T cells. This antigen might be explored as a therapeutic vaccine in B-CLL."
1689	"Routine interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with LSI IGH/CCND1 assay, applied to differentiate CLL from leukemic mantle cell lymphoma, identified a subset of cases (42/174) with translocation-like IGH signal pattern. To unravel the underlying 14q32/IGH aberrations, 14 of these cases were subjected to cytogenetic, detailed FISH, and  V(H) mutation analyses. FISH identified cryptic losses of various portions of the IGHV region in all 14 cases. Fine mapping of these V(H) deletions revealed a strict correlation between their distal border and localization of the used VH gene, suggesting that they are not oncogenic but reflect physiological events accompanying somatic V-D-J assembly. This hypothesis was further supported by FISH analysis of 20 CLL and hairy cell leukemia cases with the known V(H) usage showing a constant loss of sequences proximal to the used gene, identification of V(H) deletions in normal B cells, and their exclusive demonstration in B cell malignancies, but not of T cell and myeloid linage. Given that these cryptic physiological VH losses in B cells may seriously complicate analysis of B cell leukemia/lymphoma and lead to false conclusions, FISH users should take them into consideration when interpreting IGH aberrations in these malignancies."
1694	"Recent studies indicate that V(H) gene usage in B-CLL may have prognostic impact  independently of V(H) gene mutation status. The V1-69 gene is the most frequently rearranged V(H) gene in B-CLL and is almost always unmutated. We therefore investigated whether patients with a V1-69 gene rearrangement differ in clinical  course and outcome with respect to patients expressing other unmutated V(H) genes. We show that V1-69 B-CLLs constitute a uniform group of patients that more often present at advanced clinical stages and require early treatment, but their  survival does not differ significantly from patients with other unmutated V(H) genes."
1695	"Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assessment of clonal immunoglobulin (Ig) and T-cell receptor (TCR) gene rearrangements is an important diagnostic tool in mature B-cell neoplasms. However, lack of standardized PCR protocols resulting in a high level of false negativity has hampered comparability of data in previous clonality studies. In order to address these problems, 22 European laboratories investigated the Ig/TCR rearrangement patterns as well as t(14;18) and t(11;14) translocations of 369 B-cell malignancies belonging to five WHO-defined entities  using the standardized BIOMED-2 multiplex PCR tubes accompanied by international  pathology panel review. B-cell clonality was detected by combined use of the IGH  and IGK multiplex PCR assays in all 260 definitive cases of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n=56), mantle cell lymphoma (n=54), marginal zone lymphoma  (n=41) and follicular lymphoma (n=109). Two of 109 cases of diffuse large B-cell  lymphoma showed no detectable clonal marker. The use of these techniques to assign cell lineage should be treated with caution as additional clonal TCR gene  rearrangements were frequently detected in all disease categories. Our study indicates that the BIOMED-2 multiplex PCR assays provide a powerful strategy for  clonality assessment in B-cell malignancies resulting in high Ig clonality detection rates particularly when IGH and IGK strategies are combined."
1696	"Glucocorticoids induce apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells through a caspase-dependent mechanism. However, their mechanism of action remains unknown. We have studied the regulation of the proapoptotic BH3-only Bcl-2 interacting mediator of cell death (BIM) in CLL cells. We demonstrate that glucocorticoids upregulate BIM at protein and mRNA levels. We have investigated the ability of different survival signals, such as 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA), stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha), interleukin 4  (IL-4) and B-cell receptor (BCR) activation, to influence the levels of BIM and its induction by glucocorticoids. TPA downregulates BIM(EL) by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-mediated BIM phosphorylation and further proteasome-mediated degradation. However, SDF-1alpha and BCR activation induce transient BIM phosphorylation, without protein degradation. Proteasome inhibitors do not modify the levels of BIM with respect to untreated cells. However, they induce apoptosis and inhibit TPA-induced BIM(EL) degradation, leading to its accumulation. In conclusion, the results implicate BIM in glucocorticoid-induced  apoptosis in CLL cells. BIM(EL) phosphorylation through the ERK pathway targets the protein for proteasomal degradation."
1698	"In the present study, we aimed to investigate the parameters in serum of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and correlate with the cancer stage. The serum concentrations of ceruloplasmin, a-1-acid glycoprotein, albuminumin, transferrin, copper, zinc, manganese, and ceruloplasmin oxidase activity were measured, and compared with those from a healthy control group. The serum from 34 patients with CLL were extracted before chemotherapy. Serum transferrin, albuminumin and Zinc concentrations were lower in patients with CLL while serum a-1-acid glycoprotein, ceruloplasmin, copper concentrations, and ceruloplasmin oxidase activity were higher in CLL patients when compared with the control group. Although serum manganese concentration was lower in CLL groups than in the control group, the difference was not statistically significant. Serum transferrin concentration was lower in the early stage group compared with the advanced stage. Serum ceruloplasmin level positively correlated with serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity in patients from the early stage group. Serum ceruloplasmin level positively correlated with serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity in patients with advanced stage. In conclusion, increased serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity, ceruloplasmin, a-1-acid glycoprotein, copper levels and decreased transferrin and albuminumin, unchanged manganese levels are  associated with CLL and appear to be a consequence of the disease itself."
1701	"Building on the prior work of use of pentostatin in chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL), we initiated a trial of combined pentostatin (2 mg/m2), cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2), and rituximab (375 mg/m2) for 65 symptomatic, previously untreated patients. Of 64 evaluable patients, 34 (53%) were high Rai risk, 71% were nonmutated for the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region gene, 34% were CD38+, and 34% were ZAP-70+. Thirty patients (52%) had one anomaly detected by fluorescence in situ (FISH) hybridization, and 21 (36%) had complex FISH defects. Thirty-eight patients (58%) had grade 3+ hematologic toxicity but minimal transfusion needs and no major infections. Responses occurred in 58 patients (91%), with 26 (41%) complete responses (CRs), 14 (22%) nodular partial responses (nodular PRs), and 18 (28%) partial responses (PRs). Many patients with a CR also lacked evidence of minimal residual disease by 2-color flow cytometry. Examination of prognostic factors demonstrated poor response in the 3 patients with del(17p). In contrast, we found this regimen was equally effective in young  versus older (>70 years) patients and in del(11q22.3) versus other favorable prognostic factors. Thus, this novel regimen of pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab for previously untreated patients with CLL demonstrated significant clinical activity despite poor risk-based prognoses, achievement of minimal residual disease in some, and modest toxicity."
1702	"Despite promising preclinical studies with the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor  flavopiridol in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other diseases, previous clinical trials with this agent have been disappointing. The discovery of differential protein binding of flavopiridol in human and bovine serum contributed to an effective pharmacokinetic-derived schedule of administration of this agent. On the basis of pharmacokinetic modeling using our in vitro results and data from a previous trial, we initiated a phase 1 study using a 30-minute loading dose followed by 4 hours of infusion administered weekly for 4 of 6 weeks in patients with refractory CLL. A group of 42 patients were enrolled on 3 cohorts (cohort 1, 30 mg/m2 loading dose followed by 30 mg/m2 4-hour infusion; cohort 2, 40 mg/m2 loading dose followed by 40 mg/m2 4-hour infusion; and cohort  3, cohort 1 dose for treatments 1 to 4, then a 30 mg/m2 loading dose followed by  a 50 mg/m2 4-hour infusion). The dose-limiting toxicity using this novel schedule was hyperacute tumor lysis syndrome. Aggressive prophylaxis and exclusion of patients with leukocyte counts greater than 200x10(9)/L have made this drug safe  to administer at the cohort 3 dose. Of the 42 patients treated, 19 (45%) achieved a partial response with a median response duration that exceeds 12 months. Responses were noted in patients with genetically high-risk disease, including 5  (42%) of 12 patients with del(17p13.1) and 13 (72%) of 18 patients with del(11q22.3). Flavopiridol administered using this novel schedule has significant clinical activity in refractory CLL. Patients with bulky disease and high-risk genetic features have achieved durable responses, thereby justifying further study of flavopiridol in CLL and other diseases."
1703	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells express BR3, the specific receptor for the B cell-activating factor of tumor necrosis factor family (BAFF). CLL cells also express 2 other receptors for BAFF, namely B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)  and the transmembrane activator and calcium modulator and cyclophilin ligand-interactor (TACI), which also bind a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL). We found that signaling through BR3, but not BCMA or TACI, activated the alternative nuclear factor of kappa B (NF-kappaB) pathway in CLL cells, whereas signaling through BCMA/TACI induced activation of the canonical NF-kappaB pathway. Blocking BR3 did not inhibit the capacity of BAFF to support CLL cell survival in vitro. On the other hand, specifically blocking the canonical NF-kappaB pathway with UTC, an inhibitor of IkappaB kinase beta (IKKbeta), or transfection of CLL cells with the IkappaBalpha super-repressor, blocked the capacity of BAFF and APRIL to promote CLL cell survival in vitro. This contrasts  what is found with normal blood B cells, which apparently depend on activation of the alternative NF-kappaB pathway for BAFF-enhanced survival. These findings suggest that inhibitors of protein kinase IKKbeta, which is required for activation of the canonical NF-kappaB pathway, might have a therapeutic role in this disease."
1704	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common B-cell leukemia among older populations in Western countries. The clinical course of B-CLL is heterogeneous: in some patients the disease course is indolent, in others it is aggressive. The B-CLL subgroups with chromosome 11q23 deletion have been associated with aggressive disease course involving ATM deletion, extensive bulky lymphadenopathy (BLA), and inferior clinical outcome. Using real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, we found that ATM was consistently underexpressed in B-CLL patients with BLA, irrespective of 11q23 deletion status. In addition, B-CLL patients who presented with BLA had a significantly shorter time to treatment (2 months) than did patients without BLA (74 months). Moreover, gene expression analysis in B-CLL patients with and without BLA revealed differences in expression for genes involved in apoptosis, cell cycle, and cell adhesion. These results indicate an association between BLA and reduced expression of ATM, suggesting a role for ATM in disease progression in B-CLL."
1705	"Several groups have reported in recent years that members of the plant stress hormones family of jasmonates, and some of their synthetic derivatives, exhibit anti-cancer activity in vitro and in vivo. Jasmonates increased the life span of  EL-4 lymphoma-bearing mice, and exhibited selective cytotoxicity towards cancer cells while sparing normal blood lymphocytes, even when the latter were part of a mixed population of leukemic and normal cells drawn from the blood of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Jasmonates join a growing number of old and  new cancer chemotherapeutic compounds of plant origin. Three mechanisms of action have been proposed to explain the anti-cancer activity of jasmonates. These include: (1) The bio-energetic mechanism-jasmonates induce severe ATP depletion in cancer cells via mitochondrial perturbation; (2) The re-differentiation mechanism-jasmonates induce re-differentiation in human myeloid leukemia cells via mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity; (3) The reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated mechanism-jasmonates induce apoptosis in lung carcinoma cells via the generation of hydrogen peroxide, and pro-apoptotic proteins of the  Bcl-2 family. Several similarities between the effects of jasmonates on plant and cancer cells have been recorded, suggesting that additional analysis of jasmonate effects in plant cells may contribute to a deeper understanding of the anti-cancer actions of these compounds. Those similarities include: induction of  cell death, suppression of proliferation and cell cycle arrest, MAPK induction, ROS generation, and enhancement of heat-shock proteins (HSP) expression. Finally, jasmonates can induce death in drug-resistant cells. The drug resistance was conferred by either p53 mutation or P-glycoprotein (P-gp) over-expression. In summary, the jasmonate family of novel anti-cancer agents presents new hope for the development of cancer therapeutics, which should attract further scientific and pharmaceutical interest."
1706	"Hybrids generated from tumor cells and dendritic cells (DC) have been proposed as tools for treating malignant disease. Here, we study the underlying principles and the feasibility for the adjuvant therapy of human B cell chronic-lymphocytic  leukemia (B-CLL). CLL cells and allogeneic DC were only mixed or additionally fused. Using a combination of FACS and fluorescence microscopic analyses, we show that DC-CLL hybrids can be successfully generated. However, fusion frequencies have to be critically evaluated because the number of fused cells is overestimated when based on FACS analyses alone. The capability of activating patients' PBMC was examined by measuring cytokine secretion in co-culture assays. We made a systematic comparison of the immunostimulatory capacities of different  stimulator cell populations, including DC-CLL fusion samples, unfused mixtures of DC and CLL cells as well as DC or tumor cells alone. Surprisingly, even unfused mixtures had a pronounced tumor-directed immunostimulatory effect. This could be  explained by the capture of antigens from surrounding leukemia cells by DC during co-cultivation. Although fusion frequencies were low, PBMC stimulation was significantly more effective when the mixtures were subjected to cell fusion. The most potent stimulus was provided by DC-CLL fusion samples derived from mature DC, probably due to their enhanced costimulatory capacity. In summary, DC-tumor cell hybrids might be feasible in the treatment of B-CLL. It should be considered that FACS analysis is not sufficient to assess fusion frequencies and that interactions between unfused DC and CLL cells also result in PBMC activation."
1707	"Dok1 is an adaptor tyrosine kinase substrate with tumor-suppressive activity. The gene encoding Dok1 maps to human chromosome 2p13, which is frequently rearranged  in human tumors. We have previously reported a frameshift mutation of this gene and the down-regulation of its expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In this study, we have determined the expression levels of Dok1 in Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cell lines, lymphoblastoid cell lines from patients with X-linked lymphoproliferative (XLP-LCL), or from control healthy donors. We have also screened for Dok1 gene mutations by heteroduplex analysis and direct sequencing.  Dok1 expression was down-regulated in all BL and XLP-LCL cell lines in comparison to the control cells. No Dok1 mutation or polymorphism was found in the coding region of Dok1 in the three types of cells. However, DNA sequence analysis revealed the presence of four nucleotide changes in Dok1 gene, T(90172)C (intron  1), C(89487)T and (89433)InsCTCT (intron 2), and A(87714)G (3' UTR). T(90172)C and (89433)InsCTCT that were detected in about 7% of BL, 9% of XLP-LCL and 4% of  normal samples may represent a common polymorphism. C(89487)T and A(87714)G changes were detected in 9 and 6% of analyzed BL lines, respectively, but never in the control and XLP-LCL cells, indicating that these nucleotide substitution occurred during tumor development. Interestingly, the C(89487)T variant is associated with a significantly lower level of Dok1 expression compared to the control samples. A positive association was also found between the presence of EBV in BL and the Dok1 genetic variation. Our data show that Dok1 expression and  structure are affected in a subset of Burkitt's lymphoma samples, suggesting its  possible role in this type of cancer."
1710	"A multicenter trial was performed to confirm the therapeutic efficacy and the toxicity profile of the combination of cladribine, cyclophosphamide and prednisone in low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Twenty-three adults with previously treated (61%) or untreated (39%) NHL International Working Formulation A or Binet B and C CLL were administered cladribine 0.1 mg/kg/day as a subcutaneous bolus for 5 days, intravenous cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 on day 1, and oral prednisone 40 mg/m2 on  days 1-5, every 4 weeks. Unexpected early hematological toxicities led to dose modifications for pretreated patients who received cladribine for 3 days only up  to a maximum of five courses. Responses were observed in 75%, with 7 patients obtaining a complete clinical and hematological response. Median duration of complete response was 9 months. Median time to progression or relapse was 31 months. Myelosuppression and infections were dose limiting whereas posttreatment  complications, including fatalities, resulted from infections. Median overall survival time from trial entry was 60 months. Activity of the combination of cladribine, cyclophosphamide and prednisone was confirmed. However, in the specific setting of a multicenter trial, unexpected fatal infectious episodes occurred in pretreated patients. Great caution is thus required in these susceptible patients and the routine use of corticosteroids should probably be abandoned."
1711	"T-cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia (T-LGL) also known as T-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia is rare and comprises a small minority of all small lymphocytic leukemias. The concomitant presentation of T-LGL with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has not been previously reported. We present an elderly gentleman  with concomitant T-LGL and AML (non-M3) diagnosed by a combination of morphologic evaluation, immunophenotyping by flow cytometry, and T-cell gene rearrangement studies. The patient was managed with combination AML chemotherapy. He remains alive and well seven months after initial diagnosis. A brief review of literature is also presented."
1713	"Investigators in this study explored levels of soluble CD27 (sCD27), interleukin  (IL)-8, and IL-10 in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), and the correlation of these levels with disease stage and prognosis. Plasma IL-8, IL-10, and sCD27 levels were assessed with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay tests in 22 healthy donors and 70 patients with B-CLL (49 men and 21 women). Mean patient age was 61.57 y (range, 44-75 y). Mean healthy donor age was 62.09 y (range, 40-72 y). In the study group, mean values were as follows: plasma IL-8, 284.758 pg/mL (0-1000 pg/mL) plasma IL-10, 26.152 pg/mL (0-100 pg/mL) sCD27, 731.357 U/mL (139.9-1000 U/mL) white blood cell count, 59.9 x 10(9)/L (0.8-250.0 x 10(9)/L) hemoglobin count, 11.2 g/dL (5.0-16.2 g/dL) platelet count, 162.5 x 10(9)/L (29.8-317 x 10(9)/L) B(2) microglobulin (B(2)M) 3350.2 mg/L (274.7-7499.9 mg/L) CD38, 19.5% and lactate dehydrogenase (count, 497.5 U/L (263.0-1507 U/L). Patients represented all Rai stages, with 22.9% at stage 0, 11.4% at stage I, 11.4% at stage II, 41.4% at stage III, and 12.9% at stage IV. Plasma levels of IL-8, IL-10, and sCD27 were correlated between study and control groups; significantly higher IL-8 (P=.001) and sCD27 (P=.000) levels were found, but the  IL-10 level was not significant (P=.139). Plasma IL-10 (P=.01) and sCD27 (P=.008) were positively correlated with Rai stage, but IL-8 was not (P=.146). Levels of sCD27 were significantly correlated with values for B2M (P=.000), hemoglobin (P=.028), lactate dehydrogenase (P=.001), CD19 (P=.03), and IL-10 (P=.000). IL-8  was significantly correlated with white blood cell (P=.000) count, and CD38 (P=.001) and CD5 (P=.006) levels. IL-10 was significantly correlated with B(2)M (P=.017), CD19 (P=.000), platelet (P=.002), and CD27 (P=.000). In survival distributions for CD27, IL-8 and IL-10 were found to have more significant relationships for all parameters (P=.0000). In conclusion, the authors suggest that sCD27, IL-8, and IL-10 are more significant prognostic factors for B-CLL when compared with others, and these values should correlate with new prognostic  factors (eg, zeta-associated protein-70, mutated/unmutated immunoglobulin variable heavy chain)."
1715	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a heterogeneous disease that may exhibit familial clustering. We examined the cytogenetic, immunophenotypic, and VH gene usage characteristics of a family with B-CLL affecting 7 members in 3 generations. Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization studies identified an  acquired deletion of chromosome 13q14 in the leukemic cells of 6 affected members, accompanied by deletion 14q32 or trisomy 12 in 2 cases. VH gene analysis demonstrated clonal rearrangements of the VH3 gene family in 5 cases and of VH2 genes in 1 case. All 6 cases were mutated in VH2 or VH3. Two cases had a second VH1 family gene rearrangement that was unmutated. Flow cytometry performed on 5 cases showed the typical B-CLL immunophenotype; all were CD38-, but 3 expressed ZAP-70. Our findings support previous observations that familial and sporadic B-CLL cases are biologically similar and suggest that familial clusters will be useful for studying pathogenetic events in B-CLL."
1716	"By multiparameter flow cytometry, the T-cell-associated markers CD4 and CD7 were  aberrantly coexpressed on a case of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The CLL had an immunophenotype: CD19+, CD20+, CD79b+, CD5+, CD23+, FMC7+, kappa+, CD4+, and CD7+. Molecular analysis confirmed clonal rearrangement of the immunoglobin heavy chain genes and a germline configuration of the T-cell receptor genes. Fluorescence in situ hybridization showed trisomy 12 anomaly. There was no evidence of deletion 17p (p53), 11q23 (ATM), or 13q14 or translocation t(11:14). The patent was clinically stable without treatment. Although the pathogenesis of such aberrant immunophenotype remains to be determined, the current case illustrates the phenotypic heterogeneity of CLL, and emphasizes the importance of a comprehensive diagnostic approach including clinical, morphologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular cytogenetic studies."
1717	"Curcumin, the principle component of the spice turmeric, has been used as an anti-inflammatory medication in India and China for centuries. Recent studies, predominantly using actively dividing cell lines, have suggested that this compound could be used as a chemopreventative or therapeutic agent for epithelial tumors. As curcumin has been reported to inhibit the NIK/IKK complex, an activity that would be expected to induce apoptosis in B cell malignancies, we sought to determine whether curcumin induces apoptosis in vitro in primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells. Primary leukemic cells were incubated with varying dosages of curcumin, followed by assessment for apoptosis. The role of PPARgamma or NF-kappaB signaling in curcumin-induced apoptosis was examined by cotreatment with a PPARgamma antagonist or EMSA of nuclear NFkappaB complexes. We also examined whether a clinically achievable concentration of curcumin (1 microM) would augment the apoptotic effects of fludarabine, dexamethasone, vincristine or the PDE4 inhibitor rolipram. In B-CLL cells from 14 patients, curcumin-induced apoptosis with a mean EC(50) of 5.5 microM. In contrast, the EC(50) for whole mononuclear cells from a healthy donor was 21.8 microM. In a 48  hr wash-out time course, curcumin-induced apoptosis was time-dependent, with a substantial reduction in apoptosis observed when curcumin was removed after 5 hr. Curcumin treatment reduced basal nuclear NF-kappaB levels and 1 microM curcumin augmented both vinca alkaloid and PDE4 inhibitor-induced apoptosis in B-CLL cells. Our studies suggest that curcumin may augment the efficacy of established  or experimental therapies for B-CLL."
1718	"The association of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and acute leukemia, either  lymphoid or myeloid is a rare event. Our review of the medical literature revealed only 6 cases of CLL transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (M0,  M1 and M2) with no other associated malignancy. We report a similar case but with occurrence of AML-M4 associated with normal cytogenetic analysis and molecular testing but with positive T-cell receptor gamma gene rearrangement rather than the usual Vbeta rearrangement."
1719	"CONTEXT: Expression of ZAP-70 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) predicts worse clinical outcome in patients with early-stage disease. It has become important to include ZAP-70 in the immunophenotyping panel used to diagnose CLL,  commonly performed by flow cytometry (FC). Nevertheless, the methodology used to  detect ZAP-70 by FC has not been extensively evaluated. OBJECTIVE: To describe our FC method for detecting ZAP-70 in CLL and assess whether this assay is useful in estimating the ZAP-70 protein level in CLL cells. DESIGN: ZAP-70 expression was assessed by FC in 45 consecutive newly diagnosed CLL patients, and the results were correlated with those of immunocytochemistry and Western blot analysis. RESULTS: With >25% ZAP-70-positive B cells as the cutoff, the FC results had a perfect concordance with those of immunocytochemistry (39/39, 100%) and Western blot analysis (7/7, 100%). The use of autofluorescence controls was found to be superior to other alternatives. Overall, 19 (42%) of 45 cases were ZAP-70 positive in our series. Since only 7 cases (16%) had >20% to 30% ZAP-70-positive  B cells, the cutoff of >25% readily separated CLL into positive and negative groups in most cases. ZAP-70 positivity was significantly associated with atypical morphology but not other laboratory parameters evaluated. CONCLUSIONS: With proper specimen processing and the use of directly fluorescence-conjugated anti-ZAP-70 antibody, one can readily incorporate ZAP-70  into the routine FC study panel for CLL. Our data suggest that FC is a rapid and  useful method to estimate the ZAP-70 protein expression level in CLL."
1720	"The thiocarbamate drug disulfiram has been used for decades in the treatment of alcohol abuse. Disulfiram induces apoptosis in a number of tumor cell lines and was recently by us proposed to act as a 26S proteasome inhibitor. In this work we characterized disulfiram in vitro with regard to tumor-type specificity, possible mechanisms of action and drug resistance and cell death in human tumor cell lines and in 78 samples of tumor cells from patients using the fluorometric microculture cytotoxicity assay and the automated fluorescence-imaging microscope ArrayScan((R)). Disulfiram induced cytotoxicity in a biphasic pattern in both cell lines and patient tumor cells. Disulfiram induced apoptosis as measured by cell membrane permeability, nuclear fragmentation/condensation and caspase-3/7 activation using high content screening assays. For many of the cell lines tested disulfiram was active in sub-micromolar concentrations. When comparing the logIC(50) patterns with other cytotoxic agents, disulfiram showed low correlation (R<0.5) with all drugs except lactacystin (R=0.69), a known proteasome inhibitor, indicating that the two substances may share mechanistic pathways. Disulfiram was more active in hematological than in solid tumor samples, but substantial activity was observed in carcinomas of the ovary and the breast and in non-small  cell lung cancer. Disulfiram also displayed higher cytotoxic effect in cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia than in normal lymphocytes (p<0.05), which may indicate some tumor selectivity. These results together with large clinical experience and relatively mild side effects encourage clinical studies of disulfiram as an anti-cancer agent."
1721	"Extracellular nucleotides and nucleosides act as signaling molecules involved in  a wide spectrum of biological effects. Their levels are controlled by a complex cell surface-located group of enzymes called ectonucleotidases. There are four major families of ectonucleotidases, nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases  (NTPDases/CD39), ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterases (E-NPPs), alkaline phosphatases and ecto-5'-nucleotidase. In the last few years, substantial progress has been made toward the molecular identification of members of the ectonucleotidase families and their enzyme structures and functions. In this review, there is an emphasis on the involvement of NTPDase and 5'-nucleotidase activities in disease processes in several tissues and cell types. Brief background information is given about the general characteristics of these enzymes, followed by a discussion of their roles in thromboregulatory events in diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and cancer, as well as in  pathological conditions where platelets are less responsive, such as in chronic renal failure. In addition, immunomodulation and cell-cell interactions involving these enzymes are considered, as well as ATP and ADP hydrolysis under different clinical conditions related with alterations in the immune system, such as acute  lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and infections associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Finally, changes in ATP, ADP and AMP hydrolysis induced by inborn errors of metabolism, seizures and epilepsy are discussed in order to highlight the importance of these enzymes  in the control of neuronal activity in pathological conditions. Despite advances  made toward understanding the molecular structure of ectonucleotidases, much more investigation will be necessary to entirely grasp their role in physiological and pathological conditions."
1722	"The chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) immunoglobulin repertoire is biased and characterized by the existence of subsets of cases with closely homologous ("stereotyped") complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) sequences. In the present series, 201 (21.9%) of 916 patients with CLL expressed IGHV genes that belonged to 1 of 48 different subsets of sequences with stereotyped heavy chain (H) CDR3. Twenty-six subsets comprised 3 or more sequences and were considered "confirmed." The remaining subsets comprised pairs of sequences and were considered "potential"; public database CLL sequences were found to be members of 9 of 22 "potential" subsets, thereby allowing us to consider them also "confirmed." The chance of belonging to a subset exceeded 35% for unmutated or selected IGHV genes (eg, IGHV1-69/3-21/4-39). Comparison to non-CLL public database sequences showed that HCDR3 restriction is "CLL-related." CLL cases with selected stereotyped immunoglobulins (IGs) were also found to share unique biologic and clinical features. In particular, cases expressing stereotyped IGHV4-39/IGKV1-39-1D-39 and IGHV4-34/IGKV2-30 were always IgG-switched. In addition, IGHV4-34/IGKV2-30 patients were younger and followed a strikingly indolent disease, contrasting other patients (eg, those expressing IGHV3-21/IGLV3-21) who experienced an aggressive disease, regardless of IGHV mutations. These findings suggest that a particular antigen-binding site can be critical in determining the clinical features and outcome for at least some CLL patients."
1725	"BACKGROUND: The soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) is a parameter of erythropoietic activity and iron deficiency. Increased levels have also been described in hematological malignancies, especially in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: We investigated the value of sTfR in the assessment of tumor mass in 61  previously untreated CLL patients. Both hemolysis and iron deficiency were excluded. sTfR was measured nephelometrically (normal 0.81-1.75 mg/L). RESULTS: All Binet A patients had normal sTfR values (1.36+/-0.22 mg/L). In Binet B patients, the sTfR was increased (3.08+/-1.70 mg/L, p<0.0001) compared to Binet A patients. Binet B patients with normal sTfR had a small tumor load and no abdominal involvement. A further increase of sTfR in Binet C (3.75+/- 2.32 mg/L)  was not significant compared to Binet B patients. sTfR values decreased or even normalized after successful treatment, whereas relapse or disease progression was associated with another increase of sTfR. CONCLUSIONS: The sTfR concentration directly reflects the tumor burden in CLL. Therefore, sTfR may be of clinical value in monitoring disease activity, response to treatment and disease progression."
1726	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a clonal expansion of small lymphocytes commonly expressing cell surface markers (CD5 and CD19) that are consistent with a population of B lymphocytes. This unit describes a technique to measure ZAP-70 protein expression in whole-blood specimens from CLL  samples. The protocols presented include an optimized fixation/permeabilization technique that allows labeling of cell surface markers and intracellular ZAP-70 protein with significantly improved signal-to-noise ratio, an optimized combination of antibodies-fluorophores to maximize ZAP-70 expression levels, standardized methodology for instrument setup, including compensation, to improve inter- and intra-laboratory reproducibility, and a method to index ZAP-70 protein expression levels to internal positive and negative cell populations. Residual normal T and B cells function as internal positive and negative controls. These are used to index ZAP-70 protein expression levels in the CLL population."
1727	"The genetics of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) differ considerably from most other forms of hematologic malignancy which are usually characterized by chromosome translocations. B-CLL typically contains chromosomal deletions and  chromosomes 13q14 and 11q22-->q23 are the most common. These two regions appear to share a common ancestral origin (Auer et al., 2007b). Overall, chromosomal abnormalities can be found in the majority of patients with B-CLL when using sensitive techniques (Dohneret al., 2000) and possibly reflects an underlying predisposition, with a small but significant number of familial cases. Although single and consistent abnormalities are most common, multiple rearrangements can  occur, often with disease progression (Feganetal., 1995; Dohner et al., 2000). Regions of recurrent deletion suggest the presence of tumor suppressor genes if following Knudson's theoretical 2-hit model. However, despite extensive sequencing analysis over the last decade and lack of pathogenic mutations identified, there has been a move away from this suggested hypothesis and alternative mechanisms of gene inactivation involving epigenetic silencing or haploinsufficiency may be considered as more likely in this disease. This review  focuses on the common genetic abnormalities in B-CLL and relates them to some of  the more recent hypotheses on inactivation of genes within these regions of deletion."
1728	"Although recurrent chromosomal alterations occur in chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL), relatively few affected tumor suppressors and oncogenes have been implicated. To improve genetic characterization of CLL, we performed high-resolution gene copy number analysis of 20 CLL patients using oligonucleotide array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH). The most recurrent losses were observed in 13q and 11q with variable sizes. The 11q losses varied between 7.44 Mb and 41.72 Mb in size and targeted ATM among others. Lost regions in 13q were generally smaller, spanning from 0.79 Mb to 29.33 Mb. The minimal common region (158 kb) in 13q14.3, which was also homozygously deleted in some cases, harbored five genes: TRIM13, KCNRG, DLEU2, DLEU1, and FAM10A4. Additionally, two micro-RNA genes (MIRN15A and MIRN16-1) locate to the region. New cryptic losses were detected in 1q23.2-->q23.3, 3p21.31, 16pter-->p13.3, 17p13.3-->p13.2, 17q25.3-->qter, and 22q11.22. In conclusion, our oligonucleotide aCGH study revealed novel aberrations and provided detailed genomic profiles of the altered regions."
1729	"Monocyte inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1alpha) has been shown to be active as an inhibitor of primitive hematopoietic cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo.  A dysfunction in this inhibitory process has been postulated to contribute to leukemogenesis. The aim of this study was to clarify the role of monocyte inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1alpha) in the pathogenesis of lymphoid malignancy. The study comprised 54 patients and 15 healthy controls. Patients were divided into 3 groups (25 with lymphoma, 12 with multiple myeloma and 17 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia). Serum MIP-1alpha level was estimated by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). Sixteen patients were followed up to examine the relationship between serum MIP-1alpha level and response to treatment and survival of patients. The serum level (pg/ml) of MIP-1alpha was significantly higher in patients with lymphoid malignancy compared to controls (97.9 +/- 171.1  versus 2.5 +/- 2.2, p < 0.05). Comparing with controls, the correlation was statistically significant in patients with multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (192.3 +/- 156.6, P < 0.001; 78.7 +/- 115.9, p < 0.05 respectively) but not in lymphoma patients (65.9 +/- 196.5, p > 0.05). There was  a significant correlation between MIP-1alpha serum level and the overall survival of patients. Patients with higher MIP-1alpha level showed an increased percentage of death and relapse than patients with normal MIP-1alpha (72.72% versus 21.87%,  p < 0.05). In conclusion, MIP-1alpha serum level could be a valuable prognostic parameter and may provide insight into creating a new therapeutic modality."
1730	"Limited proteolysis of multiple intracellular proteins by endogenous Ca-dependent cysteine proteases--calpains--is an important regulatory mechanism for cell proliferation, apoptosis etc. Its importance for cellular functions is stressed by existence of endogenous calpain inhibitors--calpastatins. The calpain-calpastatin system within living cells is in a fragile balance, which depends on both partners. The interdependence of calpain--a protease--and calpastatin--an endogenous inhibitor and at the same time a substrate for this enzyme makes any assessment of actual activity of this enzyme in the cells very difficult. In this work we made an attempt to estimate and compare the activity of calpain in human peripheral blood lymphocytes by assessing the levels of limited proteolysis of calpastatin in these cells by western blot, while at the same time the levels of calpain protein inside these cells was measured by flow cytometry. Our results indicate that it is possible to compare (semi-quantitatively) the activities of calpain in peripheral blood CD4+ and CD19+ lymphocytes from various donors that way. Preliminary results showed that calpain activity is increased in the CD4+ T cells isolated from peripheral blood  of rheumatoid arthritis patients as compared to control lymphocytes. Extremely high intrinsic activity of calpain was detected in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CD19+) cells. All this confirms the detection of immunoreactive products of calpastatin as a good maker of endogenous calpain activity."
1731	"OBJECTIVE: Looming threat-processing style, where threats are perceived to be progressing (looming) at a frightening velocity, is implicated in anxiety vulnerability. This study aims to validate a new measure of looming, the looming  cancer, and explore its clinical correlates in a chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cohort. METHODS: In a cross-sectional design, 105 CLL patients completed the Looming Cancer Scale, Looming Cognitive Style Questionnaire (LCSQ), SF-36, Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) and Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II). RESULTS: Exploratory factor analysis reduced the 20-item Looming Cancer Scale to  a 10-item version, which demonstrated good psychometric properties (Cronbach's alpha=.926). Convergent validity was demonstrated by Pearson correlation with the LCSQ (0.418), BAI (0.380), BDI-II (0.336) and the mental component score of the SF-36 (-0.434) (all P<.001). Divergent validity was demonstrated by a lack of correlation with the SF-36 physical component score and cross tabulation frequencies of high and low loomers. High vs. low loomers showed significantly more anxiety (31% vs. 13%), depression (23% vs. 2%) and mixed anxiety-depression  (18% vs. 2%). An area under the receiver operating characteristic curve analysis  revealed high sensitivity (82%) and specificity (69%) in detecting mixed anxiety-depression using a cutoff score of >/=20/30. CONCLUSIONS: The Looming Cancer Scale is a valid measurement of looming cognitive style and is the first time that the looming construct has been studied in a cancer cohort. The importance of this research lies in its potential to identify  populations vulnerable to developing anxiety, depression and mixed anxiety-depression symptoms."
1732	"Families with multiple individuals affected with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other related B-cell tumors have been described in the literature. Familial CLL does not appear to differ from sporadic CLL in terms of prognostic markers and clinical outcome. While some environmental factors (such as farming-related exposures and occupational chemicals) may increase risk of CLL, results of epidemiologic studies have been generally inconsistent. Rates of CLL in the population show significant international variation, with the highest rates in the U.S. and Europe and the lowest rates in Asia. Migrants from Asia to  the U.S. also have low rates of CLL, which supports a greater role for genetic compared with environmental risk factors. Large, population-based case-control and cohort studies have also shown significant familial aggregation of CLL and related conditions including non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphoma. Monoclonal B-cell  lymphocytosis also aggregates in families with CLL. However, the clinical implication of familial aggregation is minimal given the overall rarity of CLL. Linkage studies have been conducted in high-risk CLL families to screen the whole genome for loci that contribute to susceptibility, but no gene mutations have yet been identified by this method. Association studies of candidate genes have implicated immune function and other genes, but more studies are needed to verify these findings. The ability to conduct large-scale genomic studies will play an important role in detecting susceptibility genes for CLL over the next few years  and thereby help to delineate etiologic pathways."
1733	"Infections remain a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The pathogenesis of these complications is related to immune defects inherent to the primary disease as well as to therapy-related immunosuppression. The spectrum of infections seen has evolved with the therapeutic use of purine analogs, which induce specific cellular immune defects, as well as the monoclonal antibodies alemtuzumab and rituximab. Although bacterial infections are most common, fungal and herpesvirus infections are also  seen with use of these agents. This overview will summarize the pathogenesis of infection in patients with CLL as well as the spectrum of infection and approaches to the prophylactic and therapeutic management of these complications."
1734	"The current management of B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is no longer straightforward for the practicing hematologist. Rapid advances in diagnostic precision, methods of predicting prognosis, understanding of natural history of CLL, recognition of clinical complications, clarification of the quality of life  (QOL) issues facing the CLL patient, and the exciting array of novel treatment approaches have made the care of the CLL patient more demanding. This review is focused on summarizing these advances in order to provide a framework for integrating this knowledge into routine hematologic practice."
1735	"Interest in B-cells has been revived due to the description of new functions. Supporting a role for B-cells in the genesis of autoimmune diseases is the fact that the B-cell activating factor of the TNF ligand family (BAFF) is essential in their physiology. However, in each disease, this is restricted to a subgroup of patients. Based on experiments in mice, and validated in humans, this new cytokine has been highlighted. Excessive production of BAFF alters immune tolerance by rescuing self-binding B-cells. Overexpression in mice leads to autoimmune manifestation, and BAFF levels are elevated in the serum of autoimmune patients. Similar abnormalities occur in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Recent works suggest that antagonizing the protein (or competing for its receptors) is relevant to the treatment. Advances in our understanding of the BAFF system offers the opportunity to improve our therapeutic approach."
1736	"OBJECTIVES: Leukemia, together with lymphoma and multiple myeloma, are hematological malignancies, malignancies of the blood-forming organs. There are four major types of leukemia: acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL). There is a growing amount of literature of the health economic aspects of  leukemia. However, no comprehensive review is yet performed on the health economic evidence for the disease. Hence, our aim was to review and analyze the existing literature on economic evaluations of the different types of leukemia. METHODS: A systematic literature search used electronic databases to identify published cost analyses and economic evaluations of leukemia treatments. After reviewing all identified studies, sixty studies were considered relevant for the  purpose of the review. RESULTS: The identified studies were published after 1990, with a few exceptions. Many of the identified economic evaluations in leukemia, particularly for ALL and AML, may be defined as cost-minimization analyses, where only the costs of different treatment strategies are compared. In CML, a new treatment, imatinib, was introduced in 2001 and several cost-effectiveness analyses have since then been conducted comparing imatinib with previous first line treatments. CONCLUSIONS: This review indicates that there is a shortage of cost-effectiveness information in leukemia. The introduction of new therapies will stress the need for new economic evaluations in this group of diseases. More information about the total costs, that is, including indirect costs, and quality of life effects would be valuable in future evaluations in leukemia."
1737	"Dual surface immunoglobulin light-chain expression in B-cell malignant neoplasm is a rare event, and has been predominantly reported in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Herein, we report a case of aggressive B-cell lymphoma with kappa/lambda-dual surface immunoglobulin light-chain expression of a 69-year-old  woman. The lymphoma cells were positive for CD5, CD19, CD20, HLA-DR, Ig kappa and Ig lambda. Southern blot analysis confirmed rearranged bands for both light chains with a monoclonal heavy chain rearrangement. She was treated with a combination of rituximab and CHOP regimen, but died of the progressive disease. To our knowledge, this is the first case of aggressive B-cell lymphoma showing dual kappa/lambda expression; the possible mechanisms of abnormal light chain expression are discussed."
1738	"Antiapoptotic B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2 (BCL2) family proteins are expressed in  many cancers, but the circumstances under which these proteins are necessary for  tumor maintenance are poorly understood. We exploited a novel functional assay that uses BCL2 homology domain 3 (BH3) peptides to predict dependence on antiapoptotic proteins, a strategy we call BH3 profiling. BH3 profiling accurately predicts sensitivity to BCL2 antagonist ABT-737 in primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. BH3 profiling also accurately distinguishes myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1 (MCL1) from BCL2 dependence in myeloma cell lines. We show that the special sensitivity of CLL cells to BCL2 antagonism arises from the requirement that BCL2 tonically sequester proapoptotic BIM in CLL. ABT-737 displaced BIM from BCL2's BH3-binding pocket, allowing BIM to activate BAX, induce mitochondrial permeabilization, and rapidly commit the CLL cell to death. Our experiments demonstrate that BCL2 expression alone does not dictate sensitivity to ABT-737. Instead, BCL2 complexed to BIM is the critical target for ABT-737 in CLL. An important implication is that in cancer, BCL2 may not effectively buffer chemotherapy death signals if it is already sequestering proapoptotic BH3-only proteins. Indeed, activator BH3-only occupation of BCL2 may prime cancer cells for death, offering a potential explanation for the marked chemosensitivity of certain cancers that express abundant BCL2, such as CLL and follicular lymphoma."
1741	"A case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is described in which peripheral blood films showed lymphocyte agglutination. A serum factor responsible for the agglutination was demonstrated. The factor was dependent upon the presence of anticoagulant solutions and was more active at room temperature than at 37 degrees C. It could be identified as a monoclonal immunoglobulin M. This mechanism has not been previously described in lymphocyte agglutination."
1742	"Despite recent improvements in treatment, a significant fraction of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) still fail therapy. Therefore, new therapeutic modalities are needed to advance the cure rate. Seliciclib (CYC202, R-roscovitine) is a purine analog developed as an inhibitor of CDK2/cyclin E CDK7/cyclin H and CDK9/cyclin T. Seliciclib has been shown to be active in B-cell neoplasms, such as mantle cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and in multiple myeloma in vitro. The aim of this study was to assess the in vitro activity of seliciclib in DLBCL. The anti-proliferative activity of seliciclib was tested in nine human DLBCL cell lines and six DLBCL primary cell cultures. The effects of seliciclib on the cell cycle and on apoptosis, as well as on transcription-related proteins were assessed. The cell viability of all DLBCL cell lines and primary cells was reduced by seliciclib treatment. The IC50 for the cell lines ranged from 13 - 36 microm. The effect of seliciclib was independent of the genetic aberrations characterizing the cell lines. After seliciclib exposure cells accumulated in G2/M or in G1 phase, with most of the cells showing signs of apoptosis. Despite the clear cytotoxic effect and induction of apoptosis, this study could not identify a unique mechanism of action. The in vitro data suggest that seliciclib is an active agent in DLBCL. Its efficacy is apparently independent of the underlying chromosomal translocations characteristic of DLBCL. The drug might represent a new therapeutic agent in this lymphoma sub-type."
1743	"CD5 is a transmembrane protein expressed on all T lineage cells and a subset of B cells. It is known that CD5 is physically associated with the T-cell receptor and B-cell receptor (BCR), inhibiting the signaling triggered by both of them. CD5 is also characteristic of B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) B cells, although its implication in the development of this lymphoproliferative disorder has not been studied. In the present study, we examined the effect of CD5 in apoptosis, cell viability and global protein tyrosine phosphorylation mediated by BCR in B cells from B-CLL patients. As opposed to tonsil B cells, we did not observe an increase in the apoptotic or viability signals induced by anti-immunoglobulin M or SAC/interleukin-2 when CD5 was dissociated from BCR in leukemic cells of the majority of patients. We also observed that CD5 did not regulate the BCR-induced  phosphotyrosine pattern in B-CLL B cells. These findings suggest that CD5 does not inhibit properly the BCR-mediated signaling in leukemic cells. This defect in inhibiting the BCR might contribute to the enhanced survival of B-CLL B cells."
1744	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) results from clonal expansion of phenotypically mature but functionally immature B-lymphocytes. The incidence of this type of leukemia is low in Asian countries, whereas it is the most frequent  type of leukemia in the West. Previous investigations mainly conducted in Western populations have demonstrated non-random rearrangement of certain immunoglobulin  variable region heavy (VH) and/or light (VL) chain genes in different groups of B-CLL patients. Little is known about the profile of VH gene expression in Asian  patients. In the present study, we determined the frequency of VH gene family usage in 59 Iranian patients with B-CLL. VH gene family of patients was determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction using VH1-VH7 family specific primers. The most frequently expressed VH gene family was found to be VH3 (45.8%) followed by VH4 (32.2%), VH1 (18.6%), VH5 (1.7%) and VH6 (1.7%), with no expression of VH2 and VH7 gene families. The results indicate a lower representation of the VH1 and VH2 gene families and a higher representation of the VH4 gene family in Iranian B-CLL patients compared to Western patients, suggesting involvement of ethnic and/or environmental factors in B-CLL disease initiation."
1747	"The aim of this project was to identify situations where allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) might be considered as a preferred treatment option for patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Based on a MEDLINE search and additional sources, a consented proposal was drafted, refined and approved upon final discussion by an international expert panel. Key elements of  the consensus are (1) allo-SCT is a procedure with evidence-based efficacy in poor-risk CLL; (2) although definition of 'poor-risk CLL' requires further investigation, allo-SCT is a reasonable treatment option for younger patients with (i) non-response or early relapse (within 12 months) after purine analogues, (ii) relapse within 24 months after having achieved a response with purine-analogue-based combination therapy or autologous transplantation, and (iii) patients with p53 abnormalities requiring treatment; and (3) optimum transplant strategies may vary according to distinct clinical situations and should be defined in prospective trials. This is the first attempt to define standard indications for allo-SCT in CLL. Nevertheless, whenever possible, allo-SCT should be performed within disease-specific prospective clinical protocols in order to continuously refine transplant indications according to new developments in risk assessment and treatment of CLL."
1748	"Advances in our understanding of the Toll-like receptors (TLRs) have led to the identification of several agonists that are suitable for clinical development. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) may be especially amenable to TLR agonists because it is an immunologically susceptible tumor with strong expression of several TLRs, particularly TLR-7 and TLR-9. TLR agonists may indirectly clear CLL cells by enhancing the activity of natural killer and tumor-reactive T cells, or  by altering the tumor microenvironment and inhibiting angiogenesis. However, signaling pathways can be activated directly in CLL cells by TLR-7 and TLR-9 agonists, leading to the production of cytokines and costimulatory molecules in a manner that is dependent on the underlying cytogenetic abnormalities, but rendering the tumor cells more sensitive to killing by cytotoxic T cells, immunotoxins and some chemotherapeutic drugs. Imidazoquinolines are TLR-7 agonists with strong local activity against CLL, and phase I trials of systemically administered imidazoquinolines (and also cytosine-phosphate-guanosine oligonucleotides that are TLR-9 agonists) are currently ongoing at different centers. The potential importance of these TLR agonists in the treatment of CLL is suggested by their ability to sensitize tumor cells to cytotoxic agents, and their future probably lies in combination with radiotherapies, chemotherapies, monoclonal antibodies and cancer vaccines."
1749	"CD307 is a differentiation antigen expressed in B-lineage cells. One soluble and  two membrane-bound forms have been predicted and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for soluble CD307 established. Our goal was to determine if CD307 is expressed on the surface of cells from patients with multiple myeloma (MM), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and other B-cell malignancies and if soluble CD307 levels are elevated in the blood of patients with these B-cell malignancies. Cells and blood were collected from patients. Expression of CD307 was measured by flow cytometry and blood levels of soluble CD307 by ELISA. High soluble CD307 levels were detected in 21/43 (49%) of patients with MM, 36/46 (78%) with CLL and 9/24 (38%) with MCL. Soluble CD307 levels correlated with plasma cell percentages in bone marrow aspirates in MM and total white blood cells in CLL. CD307 on the cell membrane was detected by flow cytometry in 8/8 MM, 23/29 CLL and 4/5 MCL samples. Because CD307 is present on malignant cells from patients with MM, CLL and MCL, CD307 may be a useful therapeutic target for the treatment of these diseases."
1751	"Richter's syndrome (RS) denotes the development of aggressive lymphoma that arises in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Presenting features typically include a rapid clinical deterioration with fever in the absence of infection, progressive lymph node enlargement, and an elevation in serum LDH. Diagnostic biopsy of affected sites usually reveals large cell lymphomas; however, Hodgkin variant cases have been described. Richter's transformation occurs in approx 5% of CLL patients and may be associated with infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Chromosome 11 and 14 abnormalities have also been described as well as tumor suppressor gene defects involving p53, p21, and p27. Treatment options for these patients are limited and include combination chemotherapy with or without the addition of monoclonal antibodies and stem cell  transplantation. Response to therapy is variable and generally short-lived. Median survival is usually in the order of 5-8 mo. More effective management for  RS is needed as well as prognostic models that will identify CLL patients at risk of transformation. This review will address the current status of RS and deal with the pathophysiology, diagnostic approach, and treatment of this challenging  disease."
1752	"Alemtuzumab (Campath), the humanized rat monoclonal antibody that targets the CD52 surface antigen, is currently used for treatment of patients with resistant  chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Monitoring levels of the antibody in plasma/serum could provide insight into the optimal dosing and scheduling of therapy. Current  methods of detecting alemtuzumab in serum or plasma are complicated and difficult to adapt to high-throughput testing. We describe a novel bead-based assay that measures circulating alemtuzumab by taking advantage of remnant rat sequence in the antibody. Levels of total alemtuzumab complexed with CD52, and free alemtuzumab are quantitated in the serum or plasma by flow cytometry. This approach is applicable to the measurement of other humanized antibodies that contain an appropriate remnant animal sequence."
1753	"Measuring expression levels of cell surface antigens is important for the diagnosis of diseases such as B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the monitoring of targeted therapy, particularly antibody-based therapy. In some cases, the number of antigens that the therapeutic antibodies bind on the cell surface may reflect the efficacy of therapy. Thus, quantitating the number of molecules on the surface of cells before, during, and after therapy would provide important information for monitoring antibody-based therapy and potentially can be used to adjust dosing. We describe a quantitative flow cytometry approach to measuring levels of the CD20 surface antigen, the molecular target of rituximab."
1754	"BACKGROUND: The knowledge of biological characteristics of minimal residual disease (MRD) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains sparse. There are no  data available on what level of MRD might be 'safe' without an overt risk of relapse, or whether any such level exists at all. To address this issue in prospective studies, we have developed a quantitative molecular approach to monitor MRD in CLL, which allows the malignant clone to be traced with far higher sensitivity than possible with the techniques available currently. METHOD: To quantify MRD in CLL patients, a novel locked nucleic acid (LNA)-RNA-based quantitative real-time PCR technique was developed. Clone-specific assays were prepared for 62 CLL patients. Thirty patients were followed up molecularly for a median of 250 days (range 69-570 days). All patients were administered chemo/immunotherapy. RESULTS: In three patients, molecular negativity was achieved, as estimated by LNA-based assays. In one patient, a sustained molecular negativity was established by chemo/immunotherapy and the patient remains molecularly negative (322 days). The LNA-based assay enabled us to evaluate MRD in a reproducible manner with the sensitivity of 10(-7). CONCLUSION: LNA-RNA-based quantitative real-time PCR is an effective approach for MRD monitoring with the potential for increased sensitivity compared with standard DNA-based assays used for molecular follow-up."
1755	"DNA replication during S-phase represents a biochemical metric of cell division.  We present here a protocol for measuring very low rates of cell proliferation, on the basis of the incorporation of deuterium ((2)H) from heavy water ((2)H(2)O) into the deoxyribose moiety of purine deoxyribonucleotides in DNA of dividing cells, by use of gas chromatography/pyrolysis/isotope ratio-mass spectrometry (GC/P/IRMS). Very low levels of label incorporation (>or=0.002% atom percent excess (2)H) can be quantified by GC/P/IRMS. This protocol thereby permits shorter periods or lower amounts of (2)H(2)O administration than would be required using standard GC/MS techniques for measuring cell proliferation kinetics (see accompanying protocol in this issue). A disadvantage of this approach compared to GC/MS is the requirement for larger numbers of cells (> approximately 10(7)). This protocol enables definitive in vivo studies of the fraction or absolute number of newly divided cells and their subsequent survival  kinetics in animals and humans, even when turnover rates are very low. Indolent hematologic malignancies, such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and other relatively quiescent cells represent promising areas of application."
1756	"Despite discovery of new therapeutic agents, including nucleoside analogs and monoclonal antibodies, the B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) remains incurable. In recent years, some effort has been made in developing T-cell specific immunity against neoplasmatic cells. Reconstitution of effective costimulation and immunological response of host T-cells against CLL cells could  be a potential approach in immunotherapeutic trials. CD40/CD40L system is involved in the survival and proliferation of normal and neoplasmatic B-cells. Some preclinical studies have shown that CD40 stimulation can differentiate leukemic cells into dendritic cells (DCs) and result in host response. In this study, we sought to determine whether B-CLL cells could be turned into efficient  and functional antigen presenting cells, as well as to assess the type of allogeneic T-cell response against B-CLL - derived DCs.MATERIAL AND METHODS: B-CLL cells from 25 patients were cultured with or without the presence of CD40L  and IL-4 for 96 hours and then cultured in mixed lymphocyte reaction with allogeneic T-cells. RESULTS: 1) after CD40 stimulation B-CLL cells achieved phenotypical and functional characterization of DCs (i.e. upregulated co-stimulatory and adhesion  molecules at mRNA and protein level) 2) leukemia-derived DCs expressed higher amount of mRNA for chemokines involved in T-cell migration (MDC, TARC and CCR7) 3) the proliferating response of Tcells against leukemia-derived DCs consisted of CD4 and CD8 cells (upregulation of HLA-DR and OX40). CONCLUSIONS: our experiment confirm that B-CLL cells can be turned into dendritic-like cells, additionally, these cells express chemokines involved in T-cell migration and stimulate allogeneic response."
1757	"Renal dysfunction is uncommon in patients with leukemic infiltration of the kidney due to Chronic Lymphocytic Leukanemia (CLL). Granulomatous interstitial nephritis (GIN) is also rare, but a characteristic hallmark of certain diseases such as sarcoidosis and tuberculosis. GIN has been associated with medications, infections, inflammation, Wegener's granulomatosis, and jejuno-ileal bypass. GIN  combined with leukemic infiltration by CLL is very uncommon. We present a 72-year-old male with Binet stage A CLL who developed progressive renal failure over a period of four years requiring maintenance dialysis. During the course of  his illness, he underwent renal biopsies at different time intervals, revealing varying degrees of involvement by GIN together with leukemic infiltration."
1760	"Oxaliplatin and fludarabine have different but potentially complementary mechanisms of action. Previous studies have shown that DNA repair is a major target for fludarabine. We postulate that potentiation of oxaliplatin toxicity by fludarabine may be due to the inhibition by fludarabine of the activity of the DNA excision repair pathways activated by oxaliplatin adducts. To test this, we investigated the cytotoxic interactions between the 2 drugs in normal and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) lymphocytes. In each population, the combination resulted in greater than additive killing. Analysis of oxaliplatin damage revealed that fludarabine enhanced accumulation of interstrand crosslinks (ICLs)  in specific regions of the genome in both populations, but to a lesser extent in  normal lymphocytes. The action of fludarabine on the removal of oxaliplatin ICLs  was explored to investigate the mechanism by which oxaliplatin toxicity was increased by fludarabine. Lymphocytes from patients with CLL have a greater capacity for ICL unhooking compared with normal lymphocytes. In the presence of fludarabine the extent of repair was significantly reduced in both populations, more so in CLL. Our findings support a role of fludarabine-mediated DNA repair inhibition as a mechanism critical for the cytotoxic synergy of the 2 drugs."
1761	"The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is emerging as a promising target for antitumor therapy. However, the mechanism that contributes to its regulation in B lymphomas remains unknown. This study shows that in follicular lymphoma (FL) cells, mTOR is active because the cells displayed rapamycin-sensitive phosphorylation of p70S6 kinase and 4E-BP1. Moreover, immunohistochemistry applied on lymph node tissue sections obtained from patients with FL revealed that, in most cases, p70S6 kinase was highly phosphorylated compared to normal tonsillar tissue. In FL cells, mTOR was under control of both phospholipase D (PLD) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Moreover, we demonstrated that Syk plays a central role in mTOR activation because we found that both expression and activity are elevated compared to normal or chronic lymphocytic leukemia B cells. We also provide evidence that Syk operates through PLD- and PI3K-independent pathways. Finally, Syk inhibition by piceatannol or by siRNA plasmids resulted in a potent inhibition of mTOR activity in FL cells, as well as in mantle cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. These findings suggest that the Syk-mTOR pathway has a critical function in FL survival, and therefore, that Syk could be a promising new target for B-lymphoma  therapy."
1762	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common human leukemia in  the world. Deregulation of the TCL1 oncogene is a causal event in the pathogenesis of the aggressive form of this disease as was verified by using animal models. To study the mechanism of Tcl1 regulation in CLL, we carried out microRNA expression profiling of three types of CLL: indolent CLL, aggressive CLL, and aggressive CLL showing 11q deletion. We identified distinct microRNA signatures corresponding to each group of CLL. We further determined that Tcl1 expression is regulated by miR-29 and miR-181, two microRNAs differentially expressed in CLL. Expression levels of miR-29 and miR-181 generally inversely correlated with Tcl1 expression in the CLL samples we examined. Our results suggest that Tcl1 expression in CLL is, at least in part, regulated by miR-29 and miR-181 and that these microRNAs may be candidates for therapeutic agents in CLLs overexpressing Tcl1."
1763	"Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) occurring concurrently with or after untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is rare. We report a case of a 59-year-old man who was evaluated for anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukocytosis with circulating blasts. On the basis of the morphology and immunophenotyping results, a preliminary diagnosis of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia with concurrent CLL was  considered. Subsequently, cytogenetic analysis of the leukemic blood specimen revealed inv(16)(p13.1q22) with secondary trisomy 22 in a sideline clone. Fluorescence in situ hybridization confirmed the CBFbeta rearrangement associated with inv(16) in myeloblasts and myelomonocytic cells, but not in CLL cells. Therefore, a final diagnosis of AML with inv(16) with concurrent CLL was made. After standard chemotherapy for AML, the patient achieved complete remission for  both his AML and CLL. The unique aspects of this case include concomitant AML and CLL, which do not share clonality, complex cytogenetic abnormalities with trisomy 22 as a secondary abnormality associated with inv(16), and achievement of remission for both AML and CLL by AML chemotherapy regimen. This case also represents one of the rare instances where a diagnosis of AML can be established  even when the blast percentage in the marrow and blood is less than 20%."
1764	"There has been interest in generating T cells expressing chimeric artificial receptors (CARs) targeting CD19/CD20 antigens to treat B-cell lymphomas. If successful, however, this approach would likely impair humoral immunity because T cells may persist long-term. Most low-grade lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells express monoclonal immunoglobulins carrying either kappa or lambda light chains. We, therefore, explored whether T lymphocytes could be genetically modified to target the tumor-associated light chain, sparing B lymphocytes expressing the reciprocal light chain, and consequently reduce impairment of humoral immunity. We found that T lymphocytes expressing the anti-kappa light chain CAR showed cytotoxic activity against Igkappa(+) tumor cell lines and B-CLL cells both in vitro and in vivo. We also found that the incorporation of the CD28 endodomain within the CAR enhanced the in vitro and in  vivo expansion of transgenic T cells after tumor-associated antigen stimulation.  Free Igkappa(+) did not compromise the ability of redirected T lymphocytes to eliminate Igkappa(+) tumors because these free immunoglobulins served to sustain  proliferation of CAR-CD28 transgenic T cells. Thus, adoptive transfer of T lymphocytes targeting the appropriate light chain could be a useful immunotherapy approach to treat B-lymphocyte malignancies that clonally express immunoglobulin  without entirely compromising humoral immunity."
1765	"Heteroclitic peptide modifications increase immunogenicity, allowing generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) against weakly immunogenic tumor-associated antigens (TAAs). A critical issue is whether T cells generated against heteroclitic peptides retain the ability to recognize and kill tumor cells expressing the original weak TAAs, and whether there is a lower threshold of binding affinity of the native peptides, below which such CTLs can still kill primary tumor cells. To examine this we used a model examining the ability of native and heteroclitic immunoglobulin (Ig)-derived peptides to generate CTLs that can kill chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. We demonstrate that CTLs  generated against heteroclitic peptides have enhanced killing of CD40-activated B cells pulsed with either heteroclitic (P < .001) or native peptide (P = .04) and  primary CLL cells (P = .01). The novel finding reported here is that the rate-limiting factor appears to be the ability to generate CTLs and that once generated, CTL lysis of primary tumor cells is independent of the binding affinity of the native peptide. These findings have implications for vaccination  strategies in malignancies and are currently being further examined in vivo in murine models."
1767	"PURPOSE: CD52 is a GPI-linked glycoprotein expressed by B cells, T cells, monocytes, and macrophages. The humanized monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab (CAMPATH-1H) is specific for CD52 and is Food and Drug Administration - approved  for the treatment of relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The utility of CAMPATH in the treatment of other hematologic neoplasms has been explored; however, a comprehensive survey of CD52 expression among a broad spectrum of WHO-defined tumor types has not been completed. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We evaluated 294 hematologic neoplasms for the presence of CD52 using standard immunohistochemical techniques on paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens fixed with formalin, B-Plus, Zenker's acetic acid, or B5-formalin. RESULTS: The vast majority of low-grade B cell lymphoproliferative disorders (CLL/small lymphocytic leukemia, follicular lymphoma, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia, and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas) express CD52. In addition, we found that the majority of precursor B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphomas express this antigen. In contrast, there is surprising heterogeneity in CD52 expression among more aggressive B cell lymphomas, with 25% of cases of diffuse large B cell lymphoma and Burkitt lymphoma demonstrating no detectable CD52. In addition, the majority of neoplasms of the T cell lineage are negative for the antigen, including most cases of precursor T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma, anaplastic large cell lymphoma, and peripheral T cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified. Finally, the vast majority of cases of acute myeloid leukemia, Hodgkin lymphoma, and multiple  myeloma are negative for CD52 expression. CONCLUSION: In contrast with CLL, the variable expression of CD52 among other hematologic malignancies suggests that target validation on a case-by-case basis  will likely be necessary to guide the rational analysis of CAMPATH therapy."
1768	"BACKGROUND: The link between the nephrotic syndrome (NS) and malignancy was first described in 1922. In solid tumors, the NS is most often due to membranous glomerulonephropathy, whereas in common hematological malignancies, minimal-change disease predominates. Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is among the least frequently reported renal lesion associated with malignancy. METHODS: We report a case of the simultaneous diagnoses of FSGS and Hodgkin's lymphoma, and review the literature on various nephrotic glomerulonephropathies associated with common leukemia and lymphoma. RESULTS: Although nephrotic glomerulonephropathies rarely occur in association with acute leukemia, they have often been described in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Membranoproliferative glomerulonephropathy and membranous glomerulonephropathy are the most common lesions observed in CLL. Nephrotic glomerulonephropathies have also been well documented among patients with lymphomas, in particular, Hodgkin's lymphoma. While minimal-change disease is most commonly found in association with Hodgkin's lymphoma, more diverse and complex renal lesions are associated with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. FSGS remains a  rare association with hematological malignancies. CONCLUSIONS: Nephrotic glomerulonephropathies are not only linked to solid-organ  tumors, but also to hematological malignancies. A thorough evaluation, including  a physical examination for lymphadenopathy and organomegaly, as well as a hematological evaluation, must be performed in all patients presenting with nephrotic glomerulonephropathies."
1769	"Progress in the understanding of the biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and  in the development of new and effective therapies has generated a shift in treatment paradigms within only a few years. Traditional chemotherapy agents such as alkylators or nucleoside analogs are rapidly being replaced by combination regimens. Combinations of monoclonal antibodies with chemotherapy agents (chemoimmunotherapy) have proved especially powerful, almost doubling clinical complete response rates compared with chemotherapy alone. In addition to an increase in the number of responders, eradication of residual disease and achievement of molecular responses have become possible, leading to novel treatment concepts including consolidation and maintenance. New therapeutic agents and vaccines are in development and are being evaluated in clinical trials. Cytogenetic-molecular characterization has begun to be tailored into treatment considerations and it is hoped that the combination of molecular biology with effective therapies will lead to risk-adapted strategies and improved survival."
1770	"We analyzed individual VH gene rearrangements in 55 consecutive B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients collected from a northeastern region of Italy, stressing the possible differences related to geographic characteristics of the cohorts studied. Considering the percentage of somatic mutations present in the VH gene sequences and using the 98% cut-off value, 38 of the 55 B-CLL (69%) patients displayed somatic hypermutations and 17 (31%) had a germline configuration. Our results confirm and extend the observations of a bias in the use of certain VH, DH, and JH genes among B-CLL cells. The most frequently used VH genes were VH1-69 (12.7%) with VH3-23 (12.7%) and VH4-34 (10.9%). Collectively these genes accounted for 36.3% of the cases. In the mutated cases, the range of  mutations varied from 2% to 15%, with a median of 6.5%. VH1-69 (7 cases, all unmutated) carried few mutations as opposed to VH3-23 (7 cases, 5 of which mutated), VH4-34 (6 cases, all mutated), and VH3-30 (5 cases, all mutated), which show a high load of mutations. D3 family genes were found frequently (38.1%) followed by D2 (27.2%) and D6 (18.1%). The individual D segment most frequently used was D3-3, which was present in 16.3% of cases. There was predominance of the JH4 gene (49%) followed by JH6 (40%). Analysis of the distribution of replacement and silent mutations in the mutated sequences using the method of Lossos showed in 39.4% of cases evidence of antigen selection in the framework region and/or complementary determining regions. In comparison with a recent study on B-CLL patients from the Mediterranean area, the VH4-34 gene was significantly overused  in the mutated group at a percentage double that of the Italian cohort reported in this study (10.9% vs. 5%), but at a frequency similar to the entire Mediterranean region (10.7%). We also found an over-representation of VH1-69 usage in the germline group, at a frequency (12.7%) higher than previously described by the same authors (Italian 8%, Mediterranean 10.7%). On the contrary, VH3-07 and VH3-49 were not much used in our study (5.4% and 1.8%, respectively) compared with the Italian group (8% and 5.1%). In our study, VH3-23 gene segment  was frequently expressed, at frequency as high as that of VH1-69, a finding in keeping with reported B-CLL Italian data, but higher than the entire series of the Mediterranean area (12.7% vs. 9.2%); VH3-21 gene, frequently expressed in northern European CLL but rarely in the Mediterranean area, was completely absent. This biased usage of VH family genes may reflect a geographic leukemic repertoire, perhaps owing to a peculiar genetic background, depending on variations in germline composition of the IgVH locus or to the effect of a potential environmental element less frequently encountered in different regions."
1771	"OBJECTIVE: Antiapoptotic Bcl-2 is overexpressed in most cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The inhibition of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 proteins is an attractive strategy for either restoring normal apoptotic process in cancer cells or making these cells more susceptible to conventional chemotherapy. We studied the effect of Bcl-2 inhibitors on the viability of cells from CLL and other mature B-cell neoplasms. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We studied the cytotoxic effects of four nonpeptidic cell-permeable Bcl-2 inhibitors (HA14-1, antimycin A, GX15-003, and GX15-070) on  B cells from patients with CLL, mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), and splenic marginal  zone lymphoma (SMZL). Moreover, we analyzed the effect of these inhibitors in combination with fludarabine or chlorambucil. RESULTS: HA14-1 induced apoptosis with an EC50 lower than 50 microM in 26 of the  36 CLL samples analyzed. The mean EC50 for these sensitive patients was 23 +/- 2  microM. Antimycin A induced apoptosis in 13 of the 18 CLL samples analyzed. Both  HA14-1 and antimycin A induced cytochrome c release from mitochondria and caspase-3 activation. Moreover, HA14-1 induced apoptosis in peripheral cells from MCL and SMZL. HA14-1 also induced apoptosis in CLL samples with alterations in p53 or ATM. Finally, GX compounds induced apoptosis in B cells from 9 of the 11 CLL samples tested. The combination of either HA14-1, antimycin A, or GX compounds with fludarabine or chlorambucil had additive cytotoxic effects on CLL  cells. CONCLUSION: Bcl-2 inhibitors induce apoptosis in CLL cells ex vivo and could be used in CLL as monotherapy or given in combination with current chemotherapy."
1772	"Major advances have been made in our understanding of the biology and opportunities for treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in recent times. Newer treatment regimens incorporating purine nucleoside analogs have increased the rate of successful remission induction in chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. Moreover, recent combination chemoimmunotherapy regimens have produced  more frequent complete molecular remissions, and early evidence seems to suggest  that this could result in prolonged duration of responses, although this association remains to be clearly demonstrated. This review will summarize recent advances in the biology and the management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, including prognostic factors, pointing mainly on combination chemotherapy based on nucleoside analogs and monoclonal antibodies. In our opinion, in the future a  significant improvement of clinical benefits in chronic lymphocytic leukemia will be obtained through the administration of cocktails of monoclonal antibodies combined with chemotherapy in different modalities."
1774	"The aim of this multicenter GIMEMA study was to correlate autoimmune complications (AIC) in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) with stage and therapy. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (129/194 cases) and autoimmune thrombocytopenia (35/194 cases) were typically present in advanced and multi-treated disease. Age over the median, stage C and first and second line therapy were identified as independent risk factors by multivariate analysis. In  contrast, non-hematologic AIC (30/194 cases) and the presence of serological markers of autoimmunity were mostly observed in early B-CLL, suggesting different pathogenic mechanisms underlying hematologic and non-hematologic autoimmune phenomena in B-CLL."
1775	"OBJECTIVES: The Italian Society of Hematology (SIE) and two affiliate societies (SIES and GITMO) commissioned a project to develop clinical practice guidelines for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: Key questions in the management of patients with CLL were formulated by  an Advisory Committee and approved by an Expert Panel of eight senior hematologists. After a systematic review of the literature, recommendations for disease-specific and supportive therapies were formulated and graded according to the supporting evidence. Explicit consensus methods were used for providing recommendations for questions with incomplete or potentially biased evidence. RESULTS: It is recommended that therapy is commenced in patients with CLL when at least one of the following are present: B-symptoms, progressive/obstructive lymphadenopathy or organomegaly, rapid lymphocyte doubling time, anemia or thrombocytopenia (of new onset, worsening or steroid-resistant). It is recommended that patients without co-morbidity should receive fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide, whereas elderly patients with co-morbidity should receive oral  chlorambucil. Younger patients with unfavorable biological risk factors should be considered for high-dose chemotherapy and autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation within approved clinical trials. Patients either relapsing rapidly after, or non-responsive to, first-line chlorambucil should receive fludarabine-containing regimens. Patients either relapsing soon after or not responding to fludarabine-based chemotherapy should be considered for schedules including non-cross-reactive agents, such as alemtuzumab, possibly followed by high-dose chemotherapy and autologous transplantation in the context of a clinical trial or by allogeneic stem cell transplantation. CONCLUSIONS: We describe the results of a systematic literature review and an explicit approach to consensus techniques which resulted in recommendations for the key therapeutic decisions in patients with CLL."
1776	"PURPOSE: To assess cancer risks in a population that received prolonged low dose-rate gamma-irradiation for about 10 years as a result of occupying buildings containing 60Co-contaminated steel in Taiwan. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cancer risks were compared with those populations with the same temporal and geographic characteristics in Taiwan by standardized incidence ratios (SIR), adjusted for age and gender. The association of cancer risks with excess cumulative exposure was further evaluated for their relative risks by the Poisson multiple regression analysis. RESULT: A total of 7271 people were registered as the exposed population, with 101,560 person-years at risk. The average excess cumulative exposure was approximately 47.8 mSv (range < 1 - 2,363 mSv). A total of 141 exposed subjects with various cancers were observed, while 95 developed leukemia or solid cancers  after more than 2 or 10 years initial residence in contaminated buildings respectively. The SIR were significantly higher for all leukemia except chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 6, SIR = 3.6, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.2 - 7.4) in men, and marginally significant for thyroid cancers (n = 6, SIR = 2.6, 95% CI  1.0 - 5.7) in women. On the other hand, all cancers combined, all solid cancers combined were shown to exhibit significant exposure-dependent increased risks in  individuals with the initial exposure before the age of 30, but not beyond this age. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that prolonged low dose-rate radiation exposure  appeared to increase risks of developing certain cancers in specific subgroups of this population in Taiwan."
1780	"It was reported that interleukin-10 (IL-10) level increased in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients; moreover this was associated with poor prognosis. In addition, it was stated that adiponectin induced the antiinflammatory cytokine IL-10. We evaluated adiponectin and IL-10 levels in NHL and CLL patients. We included newly diagnosed 28 NHL, 23 CLL patients, and 17 healthy subjects. In NHL patients, adiponectin level was higher  than in CLL group and controls (p values < 0.05). In CLL group, IL-10 level was lower than in NHL, and control groups (p values < 0.05). Adiponectin level had a  positive correlation with IL-10 level in the NHL patients (r = 0.41, p = 0.04). In the NHL group, the median survival of patients with high IL-10 levels was shorter (22 months vs. not reached, p = 0.03). Increased IL-10 levels helped to predict poor outcome in our NHL patients. High adiponectin levels and a relationship between adiponectin/IL-10 in newly diagnosed NHL patients might suggest a role for both in the immunodysregulation in NHL."
1781	"Apoptosis of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells is regulated by the PI-3K-Akt pathway. In the present work, we have analyzed the mechanisms of Akt phosphorylation in B-CLL cells. Freshly isolated cells present basal Akt phosphorylation, which is PI-3K-dependent, as incubation with the PI-3K inhibitor LY294002 decreased Ser-473 and Thr-308 phosphorylation in most samples analyzed (seven out of 10). In three out of 10 cases, inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) inhibited basal Akt phosphorylation. Stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha, IL-4, and B cell receptor activation induced PI-3K-dependent Akt phosphorylation. PMA induced the phosphorylation of Akt at Ser-473 and Thr-308 and the phosphorylation of Akt substrates, independently of PI-3K in B-CLL cells. In contrast, PKC-mediated phosphorylation of Akt was PI-3K-dependent in normal B cells. Finally, a specific inhibitor of PKCbeta blocked the phosphorylation and activation of Akt by PMA in B-CLL cells. Taken together, these results suggest a  model in which Akt could be activated by two different pathways (PI-3K and PKCbeta) in B-CLL cells."
1790	"In a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) molecular cytogenetics showed terminal del(14)(q24). Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) narrowed  the deletion to a 35 megabases DNA segment, with the proximal breakpoint between  two partially overlapping clones, RP1-116J24 and RP5-1119N5. Besides loss of material at 14q24-qter, comparative genomic hybridisation (CGH) showed loss of 3p21.3-pter, 4p11-p15.1, 8p12-pter, 13q12-q14, and 15q11-q15, and gain of 3q25-qter. Del(13)(q12-14) included the RB-1 gene but not D13S319 and D13S25 loci. The patient was refractory to fludarabine and rituximab. Our findings and data from other reports suggest del(14)(q24) is indicative of aggressive course and is closely associated with del(13)(q14) in CLL."
1791	"Inhibitor of proteasome, bortezomib (BOR), although highly active in vitro, showed unexpectedly low efficacy in vivo in patients with B-CLL when used alone.  We studied the in vitro cytotoxic effects of BOR in combination with anti-CD20 (rituximab, RIT) or anti-CD52 (campath, CAM) monoclonal antibodies on B-CLL cells. Both BOR+RIT and BOR+CAM combinations exerted additive cytotoxicity, triggering caspase-dependent apoptosis. The treatment significantly modified expression of several apoptosis-regulating proteins, including upregulation of Bax or downregulation of Bcl-2 and Mcl-1 by BOR+RIT, as well as downregulation of Bcl-2 and XIAP by BOR+CAM. These data suggest the feasibility of concomitant use  of those agents for the treatment of B-CLL patients."
1792	"ARLTS1, a member of the Ras superfamily and putative tumor-suppressor gene resides at chromosome 13q14, a region commonly deleted in hematopoietic and solid tumors. Previously, the truncating single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of ARLTS, G446A (W149X) has been reported to act as a multi-site tumor susceptibility allele. To explore the relationship between polymorphic variation in ARTLS1 and risk of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) we analyzed germline DNA from 413 cases and 471 healthy controls for W149X and five additional coding SNPs, S99S, P131L, L132L, C148R, and E164K. A high proportion of the cases were familial, thereby empowering detection of an association. None of the SNPs were individually significantly associated with risk of CLL and there was no evidence  for epistatic interaction between loci. Our study does not support the postulate  that variants of ARLTS1 influence the risk of CLL."
1793	"Autoimmune phenomena are reported to occur frequently in B-cell chronic leukemia  (B-CLL). Fludarabine, one of the most effective chemotherapeutic agents for CLL,  may increase the risk of these phenomena and may be life-threatening. Here we present a case of an 80-year-old man with B-CLL who developed autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), associated with one cycle of fludarabine treatment, and  who was successfully treated with rituximab and prednisolone."
1795	"The chemokine receptor CXCR4 mediates the migration of hematopoietic cells to the stroma-derived factor 1alpha (SDF-1alpha)-producing bone marrow microenvironment. Using peptide-based CXCR4 inhibitors derived from the chemokine viral macrophage  inflammatory protein II, we tested the hypothesis that the inhibition of CXCR4 increases sensitivity to chemotherapy by interfering with stromal/leukemia cell interactions. First, leukemic cells expressing varying amounts of surface CXCR4 were examined for their chemotactic response to SDF-1alpha or stromal cells, alone or in the presence of different CXCR4 inhibitors. Results showed that the polypeptide RCP168 had the strongest antagonistic effect on the SDF-1alpha- or stromal cell-induced chemotaxis of leukemic cells. Furthermore, RCP168 blocked the binding of anti-CXCR4 monoclonal antibody 12G5 to surface CXCR4 in a concentration-dependent manner and inhibited SDF-1alpha-induced AKT and extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. Finally, RCP168 significantly enhanced chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in stroma-cocultured Jurkat, primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and in a subset of acute myelogenous leukemia cells harboring Flt3 mutation. Equivalent results were obtained with the small-molecule CXCR4 inhibitor AMD3465. Our data therefore suggest that the SDF-1alpha/CXCR4 interaction contributes to the resistance of leukemia cells to chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. Disruption of these interactions by the peptide CXCR4 inhibitor RCP168 represents a novel strategy for targeting leukemic cells within the bone marrow microenvironment."
1796	"We examined in vitro sensitivity of B-CLL cells exposed to cladribine, mafosfamide, mitoxantrone and combinations ofcladribine with mafosfamide and/or mitoxantrone. The results revealed that each applied treatment of leukemic cells, besides having a cytotoxic effect, affected the events associated with apoptosis. All drugs used alone, and cladribine combinations with mafosfamide and/or mitoxantrone induced DNA fragmentation and the changes in expression/proteolysis  level of caspase-3, caspase-9 precursors, PARP-1, lamin B, Bax and Bcl-2; however, each to a different degree. The exposure of leukemic cells to both cladribine combinations induced stronger effects. Moreover, the data showed that  the expression of regulatory antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 generally decreased in drug-treated B-CLL cells, whereas proapoptotic polypeptide Bax increased, resulting in enhancement of Bax-Bcl-2 ratios in comparison with untreated cells.  Drug-treatment of the studied cells induced the translocation of Bax protein from the cytosol to the cellular pellet, containing mitochondria, where this polypeptide indicated the capacity for oligomerization. These observations suggest that the examined drugs are able to induce apoptosis of B-CLL cells via the mitochondria pathway."
1797	"Leukemic patients of different classifications are associated with anemia. Such clinical conditions are often referred to as refractory anemia, paraoxymal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, hemolytic uremia and autoimmune hemolytic anemia, all of which could be categorized as the cancer cachexia. In the present work, we have studied the overall morphology of intact red cells in different leukemic patients along with patients of hypoplastic anemia (HPA) by scanning electron microscopy. We have also studied the ultrastructure of the red cell surface membranes by transmission electron microscopy. For all experiments, erythrocytes  from normal individuals served as controls. We have shown direct evidence of the  altered red cell (RBC) membrane morphology irrespective of the hemoglobin status  of the patients which includes (1) presence of large central holes in RBCs of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), (2) presence of thorn- and horn-like structure in RBCs of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and (3) flaccid appearance of RBCs in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. A  mixture of the above mentioned structures were found in the red cells of patients suffering from myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and in case of patients of HPA the  RBCs lost the normal biconcave structures. TEM studies revealed presence of pores with diameters ranging from 100 to 200nm on the RBC membrane surface of myeloid leukemia with AML being the most prominent among others. Such pathophysiological  alterations of the RBC morphology in leukemic patients could be identified as characteristic signature of the onset of anemia associated with the disease."
1798	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clinically heterogeneous disease,  with many patients surviving for decades with minimal or no treatment, whereas others succumb rapidly to their disease despite therapy. Classical staging systems and laboratory features help predict survival in CLL, but they do not distinguish patients who will progress from those whose disease will remain indolent. In recent years, new molecular prognostic factors have emerged that have significantly improved prediction of the risk for disease progression. The mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain genes (VH) is one of the major molecular prognostic factors. In this study we evaluated the association between the immunoglobulin VH gene mutation status and the clinical characteristics and outcome in 65 CLL patients that had been followed for a considerably long period at our institution. At diagnosis, patients with unmutated VH genes had higher median lymphocyte counts (P=0.001), higher total tumor mass score (P=0.001) and more often presented at an advance clinical stage  (P=0.005) compared to patients utilizing mutated VH genes. Moreover, the median survival of patients with unmutated VH genes was considerably shorter (VH unmutated, 56 months, VH mutated, 125 months; P<0.001). These data confirmed the  prognostic value of immunoglobulin VH genes mutational status in CLL, which divides the disease in two prognostic subsets in terms of overall survival and clinical characteristics of the disease. Analysis of the mutational status of the immunoglobulin VH genes may allow for an individualized approach to CLL treatment in the near future."
1799	"Systemic sclerosis is a chronic multisystem disorder of unknown etiology characterized by the involvement of skin and visceral organs caused by an accumulation of collagen. It has been reported that the incidence of solid and hematological malignancy increased in systemic sclerosis. Multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia are the most common hematological malignancies seen  in patients with systemic sclerosis. Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has only rarely been reported so far. We here report a case with CREST (calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysfunction, sclerodactly, telangiectasia) who developed CML 7 years after the onset of CREST. Ours is the second case with CML  developing after the onset of CREST in the literature. We also briefly discuss the possible tendency to hematological malignancy in systemic sclerosis."
1800	"The spectrum of skin diseases that occurs in the oncology patient differs somewhat from that seen in other immunosuppressed populations. We review the cutaneous manifestations of invasive mold infections in the leukemia/lymphoma population. Aspergillus mold infections are now the leading infectious cause of death in this population. We also review the pustular eruption caused by a new class of chemotherapy for solid malignancies. An update on cutaneous graft-versus-host disease appears elsewhere in this journal. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas and basal cell carcinomas occur more frequently in the chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma population; this is discussed, as is the more aggressive clinical course of these tumors."
1803	"BCL3 is a proto-oncogene affected by chromosomal translocations in some patients  with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. It is an IkappaB family protein that is involved in transcriptional regulation of a number of NF-kappaB target genes. In  this study, interleukin (IL)-6-induced BCL3 expression and its effect on survival of multiple myeloma (MM) cells were examined. We demonstrate the upregulation of  BCL3 by IL-6 in INA-6 and other MM cell lines. Sequence analysis of the BCL3 gene locus revealed four potential signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) binding sites within two conserved intronic enhancers regions: one located within enhancer HS3 and three within HS4. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments showed increased Stat3 binding to both enhancers upon IL-6 stimulation. Silencing Stat3 expression by small interfering RNA (siRNA) abrogated BCL3 expression by IL-6. Using reporter gene assays, we demonstrate that BCL3 transcription depends on HS4. Mutation of the Stat motifs within HS4 abolished IL-6-dependent BCL3 induction. Furthermore, BCL3 transcription was inhibited by its own gene product. This repressive feedback is mediated by NF-kappaB sites within the promoter and HS3. Finally, we show that overexpression of BCL3 increases apoptosis, whereas BCL3-specific siRNA does not affect the viability of INA-6 cells suggesting that BCL3 is not essential for the survival of these cells."
1804	"Intravenous infusion of autologous chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells transduced with an adenovirus encoding CD40-ligand (CD154) caused rapid reductions in leukemia-cell counts and lymphnode size. We hypothesized that CD40-ligation via CD154 sensitized CLL cells to death-receptor-mediated apoptosis. We found that CD154-expressing cells induced expression of CD95 and the BH3-interacting-domain death agonist (Bid) in CLL, regardless of whether the  leukemia cells had functional p53. Such treatment also induced p73, a p53-related transcription factor regulated by c-Abl kinase, and enhanced the sensitivity to fludarabine (F-ara-A) of CLL cells lacking functional p53. Transduction of CLL cells with an adenovirus encoding p73 also induced Bid and CD95 and enhanced the  sensitivity to F-ara-A of p53-deficient CLL cells. However, inhibition of c-Abl with imatinib suppressed CD154-induced expression of p73, p73-induced expression  of Bid and CD95, and blocked the sensitization of p53-deficient CLL cells to CD95-mediated or F-ara-A-induced apoptosis. Conversely, CLL cells transduced with an imatinib-resistant c-Abl mutant could be induced by CD154 to express p73 and Bid even when treated with imatinib. These results indicate that CD154 can sensitize leukemia cells to apoptosis via the c-Abl-dependent activation of p73 and mitigate the resistance of p53-deficient CLL cells to anticancer drug therapy."
1805	"BACKGROUND: In previous studies, alemtuzumab demonstrated considerable activity in patients with previously treated B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), including fludarabine-refractory disease. In this retrospective study, the authors evaluated the benefit of alemtuzumab monotherapy in unselected patients with advanced, previously treated CLL who received treatment in the routine clinical setting. METHODS: Data were collected from 115 consecutive patients who received alemtuzumab therapy at 25 participating centers in Austria. Patients received a median of 3 prior lines of therapy (range, 1-11 prior lines of therapy), and 59%  had fludarabine-refractory disease. Alemtuzumab was administered intravenously or subcutaneously with a planned schedule of 30 mg 3 times per week for up to 12 weeks. Patients received valacyclovir and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole for antiinfective prophylaxis. RESULTS: The overall response rate was 23%, with complete responses achieved in 5% of patients. Stable disease (SD) was achieved in 36% of patients. After a median follow-up of 17.5 months, the median overall survival (OS) was 20.2 months for all patients. A multivariate Cox regression analysis that included pretreatment baseline characteristics, response to therapy, and cumulative dose of alemtuzumab indicated that bulky lymphadenopathy, the administration of > r =3 previous therapies, and lack of response to alemtuzumab remained significant independent risk factors for inferior OS. The median OS had not been reached for  responding patients. The median OS was 29.5 months for patients with SD and 10.8  months for patients with progressive disease. CONCLUSIONS: The broad use of alemtuzumab in the routine clinical practice setting is feasible and active in unselected patients with pretreated CLL, and the current results confirmed the activity and safety of this agent, as reported  in previously published clinical studies."
1806	"BACKGROUND: To study the biology of rare bone marrow (BM) multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), recognized protocols are needed. Colony-forming unit-fibroblast (CFU-F) assays have historically been used for the enumeration of MSCs. However, the need to isolate and further analyze MSCs requires new strategies based on cell surface markers. The purpose of this work was to verify  the phenotype of BM MSCs in vivo and to develop flow cytometry-based methods for  their evaluation. METHODS: Pre-enrichment with D7-FIB-conjugated microbeads, cell sorting for CD45low D7-FIB+ LNGFR+ cells, and CFU-F assay were used to confirm the phenotype  of BM MSCs in vivo. Further phenotypic characterization of MSCs was performed using three-color flow cytometry following pre-enrichment or by direct four-color flow cytometry. The sensitivity of direct flow cytometry/rare event analysis for  the accurate enumeration of MSCs was validated using 85 samples from patients with neoplastic BM diseases. RESULTS: In normal BM, a significant correlation was found between the frequencies of CFU-Fs and CD45low D7-FIB+ LNGFR+ cells (n = 19, R = 0.719, P = 0.001). Following cell sorting, 15% of these cells were clonogenic. The same cells were enriched using LNGFR-based positive selection, CD45/Glycophorin A-based depletion, or plastic adherence. CD45low D7-FIB+ LNGFR+ cells expressed classic makers of cultured MSCs CD73/SH3 and CD105/SH2 and markers of stromal reticular cells CD106/VCAM and alkaline phosphatase. Novel markers were identified including leukemia inhibitory factor receptor and gp130. CD45low D7-FIB+ LNGFR+ cells were increased fourfold in the floating fat fraction of normal BM aspirates. Their frequency was decreased in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (threefold, n = 13, P = 0.049) and chronic myelogenous leukemia (ninefold, n = 11, P = 0.001) compared with that in age-matched controls (n = 26  and n = 31, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the usefulness of flow cytometry-based methods for the detection, enumeration and further phenotypic analysis of BM MSCs. These findings have broad applications for the future evaluation of BM MSCs in health and disease."
1807	"BACKGROUND: Numerous methods for quantitative fluorescence calibration (QFC) have been developed to quantify receptor expression on lymphocytes as potential disease biomarkers. CD20 expression in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is one of the best examples of such a biomarker, but results from the use of different QFC methods vary considerably. METHODS: We measured CD20 expression on normal and B-CLL B-cells, using FITC and  PE conjugates from the same monoclonal antibody (Mab). As a biological control and calibrator, we also measured CD4 expression on T-cells with FITC and PE Mab.  Calibration curves were constructed using the CLSI (formerly NCCLS) consensus guidelines for QFC. Calibration with QuantiBRITE PE-labeled microspheres and the  use of unimolar PE conjugates provided direct measurement of antibody bound per cell (ABC) for CD4 and CD20. Calibration for FITC conjugates was based on molecules of equivalent soluble fluorochrome (MESF), as determined by NIST RM 8640 microsphere standards. These MESF values were then converted to ABC, using the CD4 T-cell as a biologic calibrator, to normalize FITC and PE results for CD20 expression. RESULTS: On normal B cells, the mean ABC value for unimolar CD20-PE conjugate was 143,500 (CV +/- 19.1%). The mean ABC value for B-CLL B-cells stained with the same conjugate was 21,700 (CV +/- 42.0%). Using the CD4 T-cell as a biologic calibrator for FITC conjugate, the mean ABC value for CD20-FITC on normal B-cells was 199,300. CD20-FITC staining on B-CLL cells was generally too weak for accurate quantification. On normal T-cells, the mean ABC value for CD4 unimolar PE conjugate was (36,800 +/- 10.4)%, and it did not differ significantly in CLL samples. CONCLUSION: The expression of CD20 on normal and B-CLL lymphocytes can be quantified in ABC units using unimolar CD20-PE conjugates. In addition, CD4 expression on T-cells can be used as a biological calibrator to quantify CD20-FITC ABC, with reasonable agreement between the two conjugates with different fluorochromes. Issues regarding the accuracy of MESF microsphere calibrators and effective F/P ratios for FITC conjugates will require additional  laboratory studies."
1808	"Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients with standard dose infusion of rituximab (RTX), 375 mg/m2, induces clearance of malignant cells from peripheral blood after infusion of 30 mg of RTX. After completion of the full RTX infusion, substantial recrudescence of CLL cells occurs, and these cells have lost > 90% of CD20. To gain insight into mechanism(s) of CD20 loss, we investigated the hypothesis that thrice-weekly low-dose RTX (20 or 60 mg/m2) treatment for CLL over 4 wk would preserve CD20 and enhance leukemic cell clearance. During initial infusions in all 12 patients, the first 30 mg of RTX promoted clearance of > 75% leukemic cells. Four of six patients receiving 20 mg/m2 RTX retained > or = 50% CD20, and additional RTX infusions promoted further cell clearance. However, four of six patients receiving 60 mg/m2 had CD20 levels  < 20% baseline 2 days after initial infusions, and additional RTX infusions were  less effective, presumably due to epitope loss. Our results suggest that when a threshold RTX dose is exceeded, recrudesced RTX-opsonized cells are not cleared,  due to saturation of the mononuclear phagocytic system, but instead are shaved of RTX-CD20 complexes by acceptor cells. Thrice-weekly low-dose RTX may promote enhanced clearance of circulating CLL cells by preserving CD20."
1809	"CXCL13/CXCR5 and CCL19/CCR7 play a quite important role in normal physiological conditions, but the functions of both chemokine/receptor pairs in pathophysiological events are not well-investigated. We have investigated expression and functions of CXCL13/CXCR5 and CCL19/CCR7 in CD23+CD5+ and CD23+CD5- B cells from cord blood (CB) and patients with B cell lineage acute or  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL or B-CLL). CXCR5 and CCR7 are selectively expressed on B-ALL, B-CLL, and CB CD23+CD5+ B cells at high frequency, but not on CD23+CD5- B cells. Although no significant chemotactic responsiveness was observed, CXCL13 and CCL19 cooperatively induce significant resistance to TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in B-ALL and B-CLL CD23+CD5+ B cells, but not in the cells from CB. B-ALL and B-CLL CD23+CD5+ B cells express elevated levels of paternally expressed gene 10 (PEG10). CXCL13 and CCL19 together significantly up-regulate PEG10 expression in the same cells. We have found that CXCL13 and CCL19 together by means of activation of CXCR5 and CCR7 up-regulate PEG10 expression and function, subsequently stabilize caspase-3 and caspase-8 in B-ALL  and B-CLL CD23+CD5+ B cells, and further rescue the cells from TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis. Therefore, we suggest that normal lymphocytes, especially naive B and  T cells, use CXCL13/CXCR5 and CCL19/CCR7 for migration, homing, maturation, and cell homeostasis as well as secondary lymphoid tissues organogenesis. In addition, certain malignant cells take advantages of CXCL13/CXCR5 and CCL19/CCR7  for infiltration, resistance to apoptosis, and inappropriate proliferation."
1810	"The DNA methylation level in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia is generally lower than healthy individuals. Although DNA methylation is globally decreased, regional hypermethylation of gene promoters leads to gene silencing. Many of these genes have tumor suppressor phenotypes. Unlike mutations or deletions, hypermethylation is potentially reversible after inhibition with DNA methylation modulators. Myelodysplastic syndrome has been a model disease in which treatment of patients results in demethylation of specific genes. The story in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia is slowly unraveling as epigenetic  modifications likely also play an important role. Ongoing clinical trials correlating clinical response to gene expression after treatment with DNA methylation inhibitors will ultimately allow us to better risk stratify and predict the subgroup of patients who will benefit from treatment with this class  of drugs."
1811	"We recently reported that the addition of in vivo alemtuzumab to the conditioning regimen enables 2- or 3-locus-mismatched hematopoietic stem cell transplantation  without an excessive risk of graft rejection or graft-versus-host disease. In a later series of patients, however, one patient with refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia with large residual tumors at transplantation developed graft rejection. While the peak alemtuzumab concentration in the previous patients without graft rejection was higher than 5 micro g/ml, the peak alemtuzumab concentration in this patient was only 1.44 micro g/ml. We considered that alemtuzumab was bound to the large residual tumors, which resulted in a low  blood concentration of alemtuzumab. Therefore, it is important to debulk tumors before the conditioning regimen for patients with refractory CD52-positive hematological malignancies, or the dose of alemtuzumab should be adjusted by monitoring the blood concentration, when alemtuzumab is used for in vivo T-cell depletion in 2- or 3-locus-mismatched transplantation."
1812	"Zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70), determined by flow cytometry, has been advocated a surrogate marker of immunoglobulin (Ig)V(H) unmutated status in B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The aim of the current study was to test the  applicability of an easy flow cytometry protocol for ZAP-70 measurement in CLL samples. Samples from 61 CLL patients and 44 normal subjects were analyzed using  a commercial ZAP-70 monoclonal antibody (1E7.2 clone) conjugated with phycoerythrin (PE) and Alexa 488 fluorochromes. Modifications of the published methods led to the structure of a simplified in-house method of ZAP-70 measurement. A three-color approach was used with CD19, CD3 gating comparing with the isotype control provided by the same manufacturer. The cutoff levels for ZAP-70 positivity were defined from a receiver operator characteristic curve in relation to the IgV(H) mutational status and from the ln normalized mean value +2 SD of normal controls. Using the 20% cutoff value for ZAP-70 positivity in CLL patients defined by the literature, ZAP-PE had a sensitivity of 55% and a specificity of 98% in predicting the IgV(H) mutational status, whereas the corresponding values for ZAP-Alexa were 55% and 84%, respectively. Using the 7% cutoff value for CD38 positivity, the sensitivity was 55%, whereas the specificity was 76%. ZAP-70-positive patients showed a shorter time to disease progression in comparison with ZAP-70-negative patients (p < 0.001). In conclusion, the 100% specific prediction of mutational status is accompanied by reduced sensitivity, thus limiting ZAP-70's applicability either as a single marker or combined with CD38 for the assessment of the mutational status of CLL."
1814	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) progression is determined by malignant cell extravasation and lymphoid tissue infiltration. We have studied the role and regulation of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in B-CLL cell migration and invasion. Adhesion of B-CLL cells to the fibronectin fragment FN-H89, VCAM-1, or TNF-alpha-activated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) up-regulated MMP-9 production, measured by gelatin zymography. This effect was mediated by alpha4beta1 integrin and required PI3-K/Akt signaling. The chemokine CXCL12 also up-regulated MMP-9, independently of alpha4beta1 and involving ERK1/2 but not Akt activity. Accordingly, alpha4beta1 engagement activated the PI3-K/Akt/NF-kappaB pathway, while CXCL12/CXCR4 interaction activated ERK1/2/c-Fos signaling. Anti-MMP-9 antibodies, the MMP-9 inhibitor TIMP-1, or transfection with 3 different MMP-9 siRNAs significantly blocked migration through Matrigel or HUVECs. Cell-associated MMP-9 was mainly at the membrane and contained the proactive and mature forms. Moreover, B-CLL cells formed podosomes upon adhesion to FN-H89, VCAM-1, or fibronectin; MMP-9 localized to podosomes in a PI3-K-dependent manner and degraded a fibronectin/gelatin matrix. Our results are the first to show that MMP-9 is physiologically regulated by alpha4beta1 integrin and CXCL12 and plays a key role in cell invasion and transendothelial migration, thus contributing to B-CLL progression. MMP-9 could therefore constitute a target for treatment of this malignancy."
1815	"Compared with fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), conventional metaphase cytogenetics play only a minor prognostic role in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) so far, due to technical problems resulting from limited proliferation of CLL cells in vitro. Here, we present a simple method for in vitro stimulation of  CLL cells that overcomes this limitation. In our unselected patient population, 125 of 132 cases could be successfully stimulated for metaphase generation by culture with the immunostimulatory CpG-oligonucleotide DSP30 plus interleukin 2.  Of 125 cases, 101 showed chromosomal aberrations. The aberration rate is comparable to the rate detected by parallel interphase FISH. In 47 patients, conventional cytogenetics detected additional aberrations not detected by FISH analysis. A complex aberrant karyotype, defined as one having at least 3 aberrations, was detected in 30 of 125 patients, compared with only one such case as defined by FISH. Conventional cytogenetics frequently detected balanced and unbalanced translocations. A significant correlation of the poor-prognosis unmutated IgV(H) status with unbalanced translocations and of the likewise poor-prognosis CD38 expression to balanced translocations and complex aberrant karyotype was found. We demonstrate that FISH analysis underestimates the complexity of chromosomal aberrations in CLL. Therefore, conventional cytogenetics may define subgroups of patients with high risk of progression."
1816	"CD38 expression of tumor cells has been identified as an important prognostic factor in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Although CD38 is involved  in effector functions of T cells, the prognostic value of CD38+ T cells has not yet been addressed in B-CLL. In the present study, CD38-expression levels in B-CLL cells and T cells from 204 patients were analyzed by flow cytometry and correlated with clinical and molecular risk parameters. CD38 expression significantly differed in the neoplastic clone from patients with low versus advanced stage, irrespective of the sex of patients. In contrast, CD38 expression was generally higher in T cells from female compared with male patients but only  increased in male patients in a stage-dependent manner. In male patients, combined analysis of CD38 in T cells and B-CLL cells identified 4 subgroups with  significantly different treatment-free survival. Multivariate analysis including  Rai stage and molecular risk parameters of the neoplastic clone identified CD38-expression levels in T cells as an independent prognostic factor in male patients. Combined analysis of CD38 in B-CLL and T cells is superior in predicting outcome of male B-CLL patients than either parameter alone. Further studies are needed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of the sex-specific role of CD38+ T cells in B-CLL."
1817	"The Seventh International Symposium on graft-versus-host and graft-versus-leukemia reactions was held in Garmisch Partenkirchen (Germany, near Lake Riessersee) between January 22nd and 25th, 2006. A total of more than 100 invited participants (scientists and clinicians working in the area of allogeneic stem cell transplantation) discussed research in the area of lymphoid malignancies. Major topics of the 2006 meeting were lymphocyte biology, experimental systems, lymphoma pathogenesis, cellular therapy in vivo and vitro,  idiotype-specific responses and graft-versus-malignancy reactions for lymphomas and multiple myeloma. Further highlights were immune responses to blasts of ALL,  haploidentical transplantation, role of natural killer cells, clinical guidelines for allogeneic transplantation and adoptive immunotherapy in chronic lymphocytic  leukemia and multiple myeloma, new antibody-mediated strategies. As can be seen in the summaries of the individual presentations, progress was made in the understanding of lymphoma biology and in the clinical application of graft-versus-lymphoma or graft-versus-myeloma effects. Each day was followed by round-table discussions, which summarized new data and challenged established concepts. The discussions resulted in new insights and projects for basic research and clinical transplantation."
1818	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common leukemia in the elderly population. Under conventional cytogenetic (CC) analysis, approximately 50% of CLL cases show clonal aberrations. Using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), the percentage of patients with abnormalities rises to almost 80%, the most frequent being 13q14, ATM, and TP53 deletions and trisomy 12. The aim of this study was to establish the incidence of genetic changes in B-CLL patients using CC and FISH and to evaluate the prognostic implications. Of the 65 patients analyzed, genetic aberrations were found in 36.7% with CC and in 68.4% with FISH. The frequencies of abnormalities were as follows: 13q deletion, 42.1%; trisomy 12, 19.2%; ATM deletion, 17.5%; and TP53 deletion, 8.7%. Significant differences  were observed when the overall survival was correlated with Rai stage (P = 0.000). FISH abnormalities were correlated with age, sex, morphology, white blood cell count, CD38 expression, Rai stage, disease status, and survival. Significant differences were obtained with age (P = 0.05) and disease status (P = 0.01). Deletion of 13q was the most frequent abnormality (36.6%) among old patients (> or =60); trisomy 12 was the most frequent (31.3%) in younger patients (<60). Half of the patients with stable disease showed 13q deletion, and the most frequent abnormality in patients with progressive disease was ATM deletion (22.2%)."
1819	"The recent success of monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of various hematological and nonhematological cancers is the result of several decades of research in immune therapy of cancer. The identification of cancer-specific surface markers has led to the development of numerous monoclonal antibodies directed at these antigens, which have been associated with variable success in treating patients with different malignancies. Alemtuzumab, one such monoclonal antibody, is a humanized antibody directed against CD52. The target antigen is a  small glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored glycoprotein that is highly expressed on normal T- and B-lymphocytes and on a large proportion of malignant lymphoid cells, but not on hematopoietic progenitor cells. A number of clinical trials have demonstrated the clinical activity of alemtuzumab in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), T-cell malignancies such as T-prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), and have examined its role as an immunosuppressive agent in transplantation and for the treatment of autoimmune disorders. Effective antibiotic prophylaxis can limit the incidence of infections, which are the major side effect associated with the profound lymphopenia occurring as a result of treatment with this agent."
1821	"In the last decade, advances in the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have improved responses and survival outcomes dramatically. Chlorambucil had been the cornerstone of treatment for decades. Now, treatment approaches typically include a purine nucleoside analog, such as fludarabine, in combination with immunotherapy, most commonly rituximab but also  alemtuzumab. Several clinical trials of patients with untreated CLL have reported overall response rates as high as 95% with chemoimmunotherapy. Combinations include fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR); pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab; fludarabine and rituximab; and fludarabine and alemtuzumab. FCR has demonstrated complete response rates of 70% as frontline therapy. In addition, molecular prognostic indicators, such as IgVH mutational status, ZAP-70 expression, and chromosomal mutations (trisomy 12; 17p, and 11q deletions) are proving useful in identifying patients with poor-risk disease. Furthermore, advanced technologies such as polymerase chain reaction and flow cytometry can be used to detect minimal residual disease with increasing sensitivity. Elimination of minimal residual disease has been linked to improved  survival and become an important clinical goal. While overall response rates with current chemotherapy treatments are superior to those seen with single agents (eg, chlorambucil), many CLL patients still fall short of achieving a complete response. Novel agents with unique, nonoverlapping mechanisms of action (eg, oblimersen sodium, lenalidomide, HuMax-CD20, GX15-070), and other treatments are  under investigation in an attempt to further improve outcomes."
1822	"BACKGROUND: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a remarkably heterogeneous disorder. Some patients have an indolent disease whereas others undergo a more agressive presentation needing treatment. New therapeutics approaches are necessary for the treatment of B-CLL. Bortezomib (Btz), is a proteasome inhibitor, currently undergoing clinical trials whose function, at least in part, by stabilizing the IkappaBalpha protein and inhibiting NFkappaB activation. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this work was to study the effects of Btz on isolated human B-CLL cells, in vitro, and to correlate the differential rates of apoptosis induction with biological variables. MATERIAL AND METHODS: 31 B-CLL samples, from patients in stage A of Binet were used for this study, and the apoptotic effect of Btz on these cells was measured. RESULTS: Our data show that Btz treatment of B-CLL cells induces apoptosis in a time and dose-dependent manner. The apoptosis induction is mediated in part by inhibition of NFkappaB and is dependent on caspases activation. Interesting, in IgVH mutated cells, Btz have statistically significant differences in their in vitro activity on B-CLL cells according to their BCL-6 mutational status. CONCLUSIONS: Btz is a promising pharmacologic agent for the treatment of B-CLL, but its efficacy seems to be related to IgVH and BCL-6 mutational status, therefore, it could be interesting to further investigate the mechanisms involved in the different behavior of the cells in response to apoptosis induction by this drug."
1823	"Multiple herpes virus co-infection is a very rare complication in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We describe a patient with a CLL who developed an herpes virus lymphadenitis. Inmunohistochemical study was positive for HSV-1, HSV-2, and Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV). The coinfection of EBV with a profile of expresion of viral latent genes type III, is usually seen in inmunodepressed patients. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of a multiple human herpes virus infection mimicking Richter syndrome."
1825	"Inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) are upregulated in cancers and suppress cell death, in part, through their ability to directly inhibit caspases. Inhibitor of apoptosis proteins are differentially expressed in B-cell lymphomas. The functions of some IAPs are counteracted by the cell death inducer, second mitochondrial-derived activator of caspases/direct IAP binding protein with low pI (Smac/DIABLO). In this study, we investigated the expression levels of Smac/DIABLO in 14 lymphoma cell lines by Western blot analysis. We also assessed  247 B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and 40 Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) tumors using immunohistochemical methods. Smac/DIABLO was expressed in most NHL and all  HL cell lines. In NHL, Smac/DIABLO was expressed in 117 (47%) tumors and was differentially expressed in various NHL types. In most NHLs, from 29% to 68% of tumors were positive; however, Smac/DIABLO was not detected in small lymphocytic  lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia and Burkitt lymphoma, and was rare in extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma. In HL, Smac/DIABLO was positive in 25 (63%) tumors. Unlike NHL, all types of HL were positive for Smac/DIABLO, although nodular sclerosis was least often positive. The differential expression of Smac/DIABLO in NHLs suggests that apoptotic mechanisms are differentially involved in their pathogenesis. These results may also have implications for using Smac/DIABLO or its agonists as therapeutic agents."
1834	"The preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) gene is aberrantly expressed in chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (CLD). We produced and characterized an anti-PRAME monoclonal antibody (MoAb), which was then applied in a quantitative flow cytometric (QFC) method to evaluate PRAME expression in leukemic cells from the peripheral blood (PB) of 47 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and seven with mantle cell lymphoma as well as in the PB mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and B lymphocytes from 15 healthy subjects. Approximately 90% of CLD, but none of the normal samples, presented more than 20% of PRAME+ lymphocytes. Moreover, the intensity of PRAME expression was significantly higher in CLD cells compared to normal B lymphocytes and PBMCs. By  immunofluorescence microscopy and by permeabilized flow cytometry we demonstrated that PRAME is a membrane antigen and a cytoplasmic protein aberrantly expressed in malignant CLD. Our results suggest that the analysis of PRAME protein may contribute for the distinction between normal and leukemic cells in CLD, and that PRAME may be a potential target for therapy."
1835	"One aim of this session given at the Torino CD38 Meeting in June, 2006 was to review the role of CD38 in B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (B-CLL), and its potential as a therapeutic target. CD38(high) B-CLL cases show activated phenotypic features as compared with CD38(low) cases. Moreover, a greater percentage of Ki-67 and telomerase activity is documented among CD38(high) cases. Also, CD38 is not merely a negative prognostic marker in B-CLL, but also a key element in the pathogenetic network underlying the disease. A large series of B-CLL cases investigating the CD38 expression on bone marrow B-cells identified CD38 value <10% as the cut-off predicting a longer time to treatment. However, neither CD38 nor ZAP-70 by themselves or in combination were able to anticipate IgVH mutational status. Transferring these findings into clinical ground, 3 groups of B-CLL cases were identified with significantly different clinical courses: i.e., low-risk (no negative prognostic factor), intermediate-risk (1 negative prognostic factor) and high-risk (2-3 negative prognostic factors) patients. Altogether these results suggest that: i) CD38-expressing cells present not only an activation status, but also a different stage differentiation with a  more repeated turnover; ii) CD38 contributes to controlling a signaling pathway that confers to B-CLL cells an increased proliferative potential, enhancing aggressiveness of this variant; iii) different CD38 cut off values should be considered for peripheral blood and bone marrow; iv) CD38 seems to independently  contribute to prognostic stratification of B-CLL."
1836	"The application of molecular knowledge for developing new medical technologies is the goal of molecular medicine. Success in this area is highly dependent on the interaction of investigators from fields as diverse as biochemistry, cell biology, immunology, physiology, epidemiology, and physics, with an eye toward applying their insights and discoveries to improving human health. Such interdisciplinary approaches rarely find the common ground and language necessary to achieve this goal. Recently, a meeting of researchers studying the ectoenzymes CD38 and CD157 brought together insights into the regulation of calcium signaling, the metabolism of pyridine nucleotides by CD38 and CD157, and subsequent effects on immune function. Together, these discoveries were being applied to the development of novel therapeutics and diagnostics for myeloma and  chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This issue of Molecular Medicine, featuring several short reviews based on a conference held in Turin, Italy, 10-12 June 2006, showcases the current state of this field and highlights some recent progress in  molecular medicine."
1837	"Analyses of Ig V(H)DJ(H) rearrangements expressed by B-CLL cells have provided insights into the antigen receptor repertoire of B-CLL cells and the maturation stages of B-lymphocytes that give rise to this disease. However, less information is available about the L chain V gene segments utilized by B-CLL cells and to what extent their characteristics resemble those of the H chain. We analyzed the  V(L) and J(L) gene segments of 206 B-CLL patients, paying particular attention to frequency of use and association, mutation status, and LCDR3 characteristics. Approximately 40% of B-CLL cases express V(L) genes that differ significantly from their germline counterparts. Certain genes were virtually always mutated and others virtually never. In addition, preferential pairing of specific V(L) and J(L) segments was found. These findings are reminiscent of the expressed VH repertoire in B-CLL. However unlike the V(H) repertoire, V(L) gene use was not significantly different than that of normal B-lymphocytes. In addition, Vkappa genes that lie more upstream on the germline locus were less frequently mutated than those at the 3' end of the locus; this was not the case for Vlambda genes and is not for V(H) genes. These similarities and differences between the IgH and IgL V gene repertoires expressed in B-CLL suggest some novel features while also  reinforcing concepts derived from studies of the IgH repertoire."
1838	"PURPOSE: Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) is an inducible transcription factor that plays a major role in the regulation of genes involved in immune and inflammatory response. Activation of NF-kappaB has also been associated with apoptosis and proliferation, thereby potentially also controlling oncogenesis. A  functional insertion/deletion polymorphism has been identified in the promoter region of NFKB1, which apparently controls the transcription of NF-kappaB. The purpose of this study was, therefore, to investigate associations of the -94ins/delATTG polymorphism with susceptibility and survival of patients with different types of cancer. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Genotype distributions in patients with colorectal carcinoma (n=139), B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n=72) and clear cell renal cell carcinoma (n=140), and in controls (n=307) were analyzed by pyrosequencing and compared with each other as well as associated with clinico-pathological parameters and demographic data. RESULTS: No statistically significant differences in both allele and genotype frequencies were observed between patients and healthy controls. Likewise, no association between -94ins/delATTG alleles and survival or disease progression was noticed. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the NFKB1 promoter polymorphism has no effect on risk and course of disease in the three cancer entities that were analyzed."
1839	"Bortezomib (Velcade, formerly PS-341) represents the first proteasome inhibitor to have shown anti-tumor activity in both solid and haematological malignancies.  It blocks activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB), resulting in increased apoptosis, decreased angiogenic cytokine production, and inhibition of tumor cell adhesion to stroma. Additional mechanisms of action include c-Jun N-terminal kinase activation, effects on growth factor expression and anti-angiogenic properties. Multiple myeloma is the prototype of cancer where bortezomib has shown marked in vitro activity, which was followed by rapid translation to phase  I, II and III clinical trials, and resulted in accelerated approval by the FDA for the treatment of patients with relapsed refractory disease. Different clinical trials are currently ongoing in multiple myeloma as well as in many others haematologic and solid tumors (mantle cell and follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; peripheral T-cell lymphoma; Waldenström's macroglobulinemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia; head and neck / gastroesophageal junction / stomach /colo-rectal / prostate / non-small cell lung cancer). This reviews focuses on the proteasome inhibition exerted by bortezomib, the first proteasome inhibitor to have shown anti-cancer activity in both solid and haematologic malignancies."
1840	"Angiogenesis plays a significant role in a variety of malignant hematologic diseases, and it is recognized that it has prognostic value. However, the cellular mechanisms by which malignant hematologic cells induce angiogenesis are  not well understood. In order to investigate the role of cells from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM) in angiogenesis on human bone marrow endothelial cells (HBMEC), we analyzed the impact of factors secreted by B-CLL cells and by MM cells on HBMEC capillary tube formation on matrigel. It was found that, in addition to the secretion of angiogenic factors VEGF and b-FGF by B-CLL and MM cells, MM cells (but not B-CLL cells) induced a dramatic increase in expression of VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-3 on human bone marrow endothelial cells (HBMEC). It would seem that this increase in VEGFR-3 occurred via the ERK and mTOR pathways, since their respective inhibitors U0126, LY294002  or rapamycin were responsible for a decrease of VEGFR-3. In response to MM cells-increased VEGF receptors on HBMEC, endothelial cell migration was enhanced  in a wound artificially produced in a semi-confluent HBMEC culture, a phenomenon  which was also down-regulated by the same inhibitors that reversed the increase in VEGF receptors. The present study suggests that, in addition to the classic angiogenic pathway, another mechanism related to an increased expression of VEGFRs on HBMEC might exist in malignant hematopoietic angiogenesis."
1841	"B cells currently are not viewed as being capable of producing granzyme B or being cytotoxic. We found that B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells treated with interleukin-21 (IL-21) produce low levels of granzyme B. The addition of either CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) or anti-B-cell-receptor antibody (anti-BCR) to IL-21 results in enhanced production of functional granzyme B by B-CLL cells. B-CLL cells treated with IL-21 and CpG ODN undergo apoptosis and are able to induce apoptosis of untreated bystander B-CLL cells. This effect can be inhibited by anti-granzyme B antibody. Benign human B cells, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed lymphoblasts, and many standard lymphoma cell lines produce high levels of granzyme B in response to IL-21 and anti-BCR. Our results suggest that the ability to induce production of functional granzyme  B by B cells could open new approaches to the therapy of B-CLL and other B-cell malignancies. Our findings also have significant implications for our understanding of the role of B cells for immune regulation and for a variety of immune phenomena, including cancer immunity, autoimmunity, and infectious immunity."
1842	"Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) is a B-cell malignancy characterized by the ability of the B-cell clone to differentiate into plasma cells. Although the clinical syndrome and the pathologic characteristics are well defined, little is  known about its biology and controversy still exists regarding its cell of origin. In this gene-expression study, we compared the transcription profiles of  WM with those of other malignant B cells including (chronic lymphocytic leukemia  [CLL] and multiple myeloma [MM]) as well as normal cells (peripheral-blood B cells and bone marrow plasma cells). We found that WM has a homogenous gene expression regardless of 6q deletion status and clusters with CLL and normal B cells on unsupervised clustering with very similar expression profiles. Only a small gene set has expression profiles unique to WM compared to CLL and MM. The most significantly up-regulated gene is IL6 and the most significantly associated pathway for this set of genes is MAPK signaling. Thus, IL6 and its downstream signaling may be of biologic importance in WM. Further elucidation of the role of IL-6 in WM is warranted as this may offer a potential therapeutic avenue."
1843	"BACKGROUND: Inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) inhibit apoptosis by binding specific caspases, and possibly by other mechanisms. Eight IAPs have been identified in humans, of which cIAP1, cIAP2, and XIAP are well known. IAPs are being investigated as potential treatment targets in cancer patients. METHODS: cIAP1, cIAP2, and XIAP were assessed in lymphoma cell lines, 240 B-cell  non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) tumors, and 40 Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) tumors. RESULTS: All IAPs were expressed in most NHL and all HL cell lines. In NHL tumors, cIAP1 was expressed in 174 (73%), cIAP2 in 115 (48%), and XIAP in 37 (15%). cIAP1 was positive in all precursor B-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia (LBL) and nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MZL), over 90% of follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), and approximately 50% to 60%  of myeloma, Burkitt lymphoma (BL), lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (LPL/WM), small lymphocytic lymphoma/ chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SLL/CLL), extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT-lymphoma), splenic MZL, and mantle cell lymphoma. cIAP2 was positive in all MALT-lymphoma, over 90% of precursor B-cell LBL (94%), most BL (75%), LPL/WM (71%), and SLL/CLL (67%), and approximately 40% to 60% of follicular lymphoma, myeloma, and DLBCL. XIAP was positive most cases of precursor B-cell LBL (57%) and approximately 30% to 40% of nodal MZL, BL, and DLBCL. In HL tumors, cIAP1 was positive in 30 (75%), cIAP2 in 27 (68%), and XIAP  in 23 (58%), and did not correlate with histologic type. CONCLUSIONS: Differential expression of IAPs in B-cell lymphomas suggests differences in pathogenesis that may have implications for novel treatment strategies targeting IAPs."
1844	"BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy-related anemia is prevalent among patients with hematologic malignancies. A randomized, open-label, multicenter trial of early versus late epoetin alfa in this population was conducted, focusing on quality of life (QOL). METHODS: Patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or multiple myeloma and baseline hemoglobin of 10 to 12 g/dL who were scheduled for > or = 4 months of myelosuppressive chemotherapy were randomized to receive < or = 16 weeks of epoetin alfa at a dose of 40,000 U once  weekly immediately (early) or to wait and only receive epoetin alfa if hemoglobin decreased to < 9 g/dL (late). Those patients with a hemoglobin level > 12 g/dL after 3 chemotherapy cycles were not randomized. The primary endpoint was a mean  change in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Anemia (FACT-An) total. RESULTS: In all, 269 patients with a hemoglobin level < or = 12 g/dL were randomized. The mean total FACT-An increased 3.84 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.21-7.46) in early patients and decreased 4.37 (95% CI, -7.99 to -0.74) in  late patients (P = .003). Early patients had significantly (P < .05) higher mean  scores for total FACT-General; FACT-General physical and functional well-being subscales, total anemia scale, and fatigue subscale; and daily activity, energy,  and important activity Linear Analog Scale Assessment scales, as well as reduced  bedrest days and restricted activity days. The mean hemoglobin increased 1.2 g/dL (95% CI, 0.98-1.46) in early patients but decreased 0.2 g/dL (95% CI, -0.32-0.12) in late patients (P < .0001). Adverse events were similar between groups (with fatigue being the most prevalent); clinically relevant thromboembolic events were more common in early patients. CONCLUSIONS: Treating mild anemia immediately with epoetin alfa during chemotherapy for hematologic malignancy significantly improved QOL, productivity, and hemoglobin compared with delaying treatment until the hemoglobin level decreases to < 9.0 g/dL."
1845	"BACKGROUND: Vibrio vulnificus infection in persons with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) or hypogammaglobulinemia has been reported infrequently. PATIENT AND METHODS: A woman with B-CLL, hypogammaglobulinemia, and hepatic cirrhosis died of V. vulnificus bacteremia after eating cooked shrimp and crabs.  We reviewed host and exposure data in 252 cases of V. vulnificus infection reported in Louisiana during the interval of 1980 through 2004. RESULTS: V. vulnificus was isolated from blood in 122 cases (48.8%). Preexisting  conditions in 138 cases included liver disease (41.3%), malignancy (13.8%), and immunosuppression (9.4%). The prevalence of preexisting conditions was significantly greater in cases with positive blood cultures than in cases with positive wound or stool cultures. Exposure data in 116 cases revealed crab consumption without raw oyster consumption or seawater exposure in 3.4%. CONCLUSION: The present patient had several conditions associated with increased  risk of V. vulnificus infection and bacteremia, especially hepatic cirrhosis, but her route of exposure to V. vulnificus was unusual."
1846	"CONTEXT: Pleural involvement by lymphoma is relatively common. However, there are very few clinicopathologic studies reported in the literature of lymphomas involving the pleura. OBJECTIVE: To characterize the clinicopathologic features of lymphomas involving  the pleura. DESIGN: We reviewed the clinicopathologic features of 34 patients with lymphoma involving the pleura proven by biopsy and classified these neoplasms using the World Health Organization classification. RESULTS: There were 22 men and 12 women, with an average age of 62 years (range,  22-82 years). Nine (26.5%) patients had pleural involvement as the only site of disease, 22 (64.7%) had other sites of involvement, and 3 (8.8%) had inadequate staging data. Eighteen (56.2%) of 32 patients with adequate clinical data had a history of lymphoma (including 3 patients with pleural involvement as the only disease site). In 29 (85.3%) cases, a specific diagnosis according to the World Health Organization classification could be made: 17 (58.6%) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, 5 (17.2%) follicular lymphoma (including a case with areas of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma), 2 (6.9%) small lymphocytic lymphomas/chronic lymphocytic  leukemia, 2 (6.9%) precursor T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia, 1 (3.4%) mantle cell lymphoma, 1 (3.4%) posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder, and 1 (3.4%) classical Hodgkin lymphoma. The other 5 cases were B-cell lymphomas that could not be further classified. Cytologic examination of pleural fluid was performed in 15 cases and was positive for lymphoma in 8 (53.3%) cases. CONCLUSIONS: Most patients with lymphoma involving the pleura have simultaneous evidence of systemic involvement. The most frequent type is diffuse large B-cell  lymphoma, followed by follicular lymphoma. Cytologic examination can have negative results in patients with pleural involvement by lymphoma."
1847	"Although chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains an incurable disease with standard chemotherapy, the appropriate role and timing of transplantation are unclear. In this analysis, we report the outcomes of 46 patients with advanced CLL who underwent nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation (NST) from HLA-matched unrelated (67%) or related (33%) donors. Fludarabine (30 mg/m2 x 4) and low-dose intravenous busulfan (0.8 mg/kg/day x 4) were used for conditioning. The 2-year overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) rates in this refractory patient population were 54% and 34%, respectively, with a median  follow-up of 20 months. The primary cause of treatment failure was relapse, with  a 2-year cumulative incidence of 48%. High hematopoietic donor chimerism > or = 75% at day +30 was a significant predictor of 2-year PFS (47% vs 11%; P = .03). In multivariate analysis, chemotherapy-refractory disease at transplantation was  associated with a 3.2-fold risk of progression (P = .01) and a 4.6-fold risk of death (P = .02). Increasing number of previous therapies and increasing bone marrow involvement were also associated with decreased PFS and OS. These results  suggest that NST using fludarabine and low-dose intravenous busulfan is a reasonable treatment option for patients with advanced CLL, but that NST earlier  in the disease course will likely be needed to achieve long-term disease control  in a high proportion of patients."
1848	"Purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) deficiency in humans results in T lymphocytopenia. Forodesine, a potent inhibitor of PNP, was designed based on the transition-state structure stabilized by the enzyme. Previous studies established that forodesine in the presence of deoxyguanosine (dGuo) inhibits the proliferation of T lymphocytes. A phase 1 clinical trial of forodesine in T-cell  malignancies demonstrated significant antileukemic activity with an increase in intracellular dGuo triphosphate (dGTP). High accumulation of dGTP in T cells may  be dependent on the levels of deoxynucleoside kinases. Because B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells have high activity of deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), we hypothesized that these lymphocytes would respond to forodesine. This postulate was tested in primary lymphocytes during in vitro investigations. Lymphocytes from 12 patients with CLL were incubated with forodesine and dGuo. These CLL cells showed a wide variation in the accumulation of intracellular dGTP without any effect on other deoxynucleotides. This was associated with DNA damage-induced p53 stabilization, phosphorylation of p53 at Ser15, and activation of p21. The dGTP accumulation was related to induction of apoptosis measured by caspase activation, changes in mitochondrial membrane potential, and PARP cleavage. Based on these data, a phase 2 clinical trial of forodesine has been initiated for CLL patients."
1849	"We evaluated the expression of 10 adhesion molecules on peripheral blood tumor cells of 17 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 17 with mantle-cell lymphoma, and 13 with nodal or splenic marginal B-cell lymphoma, all in the leukemic phase and before the beginning of any therapy. The diagnosis of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas was based on cytological, histological, immunophenotypic, and molecular biology methods. The mean fluorescence intensity of the adhesion molecules in tumor cells was measured by flow cytometry of CD19-positive cells and differed amongst the types of lymphomas. Comparison of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and mantle-cell lymphoma showed that the former presented a higher expression of CD11c and CD49c, and a lower expression of CD11b and CD49d adhesion molecules. Comparison of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and marginal B-cell lymphoma showed that the former presented a higher expression of CD49c and a lower expression of CD11a, CD11b, CD18, CD49d, CD29, and CD54. Finally, comparison of mantle-cell lymphoma and marginal B-cell lymphoma showed that marginal B-cell lymphoma had a higher expression of CD11a, CD11c, CD18, CD29, and CD54. Thus, the CD49c/CD49d pair consistently demonstrated a distinct pattern of  expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia compared with mantle-cell lymphoma and marginal B-cell lymphoma, which could be helpful for the differential diagnosis.  Moreover, the distinct profiles of adhesion molecules in these diseases may be responsible for their different capacities to invade the blood stream."
1850	"BACKGROUND: In vitro studies have shown synergistic or additive interactions between rituximab and purine nucleoside analogues. The results of recent clinical trials seem to confirm these preclinical observations. METHODS: For the current study, the authors evaluated the feasibility, efficacy,  and toxicity of combined regimens that consisted of either rituximab plus cladribine (2-CdA) (the RC regimen) or RC plus cyclophosphamide (the RCC regimen) in the treatment of patients with heavily pretreated, indolent lymphoid malignancies. Fifty-four adult patients with recurrent or refractory, low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (LG-NHL) and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) were treated according to the RC/RCC regimens. The RC protocol consisted of intravenous rituximab at a dose of 375 mg/m(2) on Day 1 and 2-CdA at a dose of .12 mg/kg per day on Days 2 through 6. The RCC protocol consisted of rituximab at a dose of 375 mg/m(2) on Day 1, 2-CdA at a dose of 0.12 mg/m(2) on Days 2 through 4, and intravenous cyclophosphamide at a dose of 250 mg/m(2) per day on Days 2 to 4. The RC/RCC courses were repeated at 4-week intervals. RESULTS: Thirty-three patients with B-CLL, 12 patients with LG-NHL and 9 patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) entered the study. Thirty-three patients (61%) had recurrent disease after prior therapy, and 21 patients (39%) had refractory disease. Thirty-one patients were treated on the RC regimen, and 23 patients were treated on the RCC regimen. Six patients (11%) achieved a complete response, and  33 patients (60%) achieved a partial response. The median failure-free survival of responders was 10.5 months. The treatment revealed tolerability, with episodes of severe neutropenia (Grade 3 and 4 [according to World Health Organization criteria]) observed in 6 patients (11%), episodes of Grade 3 and 4 infections observed in 11 patients (20%), and episodes of Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia observed in 4 patients (7%). CONCLUSIONS: The RC and RCC regimens were highly effective and well tolerated modalities of treatment in heavily pretreated patients with indolent lymphoproliferative disorders."
1851	"PURPOSE: Preclinical studies suggested that bryostatin 1 might potentiate the therapeutic effects of fludarabine in the treatment of hematologic malignancies.  We undertook a phase I study to identify appropriate schedules and doses of bryostatin 1 and fludarabine to be used in phase II studies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or indolent lymphoma received fludarabine daily for 5 days and a single dose of bryostatin 1  via a 24-hour continuous infusion either before or after the fludarabine course.  Doses were escalated in successive patients until recommended phase II doses for  each sequence were identified on the basis of dose-limiting toxic events. RESULTS: Bryostatin 1 can be administered safely and tolerably with full dose fludarabine (25 mg/m(2)/d x 5). The recommended bryostatin 1 phase II dose is 50  microg/m(2) for both sequences, bryostatin 1 --> fludarabine and fludarabine -->  bryostatin 1. The combination is active against both CLL and indolent lymphomas with responses seen in patients who had been previously treated with fludarabine. Correlative studies do not support the hypothesis that bryostatin 1 potentiates fludarabine activity through down-regulation of protein kinase C in target cells. CONCLUSIONS: Bryostatin 1 can be administered with full dose fludarabine, and the combination is moderately active in patients with persistent disease following prior treatment. In view of the activity of monoclonal antibodies such as the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab in the treatment of CLL and indolent lymphomas, the concept of combining bryostatin 1 and fludarabine with rituximab warrants future consideration."
1852	"PURPOSE: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by the accumulation of monoclonal mature B cells. The G protein Galphas subunit has been linked to proapoptotic processes in cancer cell lines. The TT genotype of the GNAS1 T393C polymorphism is associated with increased Galphas transcript levels and a more favorable clinical course in different solid cancers. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We retrospectively genotyped 144 patients with B-CLL to examine a potential association between T393C genotypes with progression-free survival (time from diagnosis to initiation of chemotherapy) and overall survival. RESULTS: The C-allele frequency in the patient group was 0.57 and not significantly different from that of healthy blood donors. Median progression-free survival was significantly different between genotypes (TT 130 months; TC 100 months; CC 31 months; P = 0.0066). Multivariable analysis showed that besides of ZAP-70 (P = 0.005) and Binet stage (P < 0.001), the T393C polymorphism was an independent prognostic factor for progression-free survival [hazard ratio (HR) CC versus TT 2.7; P = 0.010]. In Binet A stages, ZAP-70-positive patients with CC genotypes had a HR of 4.4 to receive first therapy compared with ZAP-70-negative patients with T-alleles (P = 0.0001). Regarding overall survival, CC genotypes (median overall survival, 197 months) were at highest risk for death compared with T-alleles (median overall survival,  310 months) in both univariate (HR, 4.8; P < 0.0001) and multivariable analysis (HR, 5.6; P = 0.002). CONCLUSIONS: Here, we show that the GNAS1 T393C status is a novel independent prognostic marker in patients with B-CLL. These results could help to define patients who could benefit from an early individualized therapy."
1853	"PURPOSE: Tumor stromal microenvironment promotes neoplastic growth and angiogenesis. We have previously shown that recruitment of marrow-derived vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1(+) (VEGFR-1(+)) proangiogenic hematopoietic progenitors contributes instructively and structurally to neoangiogenesis in mouse models. Here, we investigated whether stromal incorporation of CD68(+) hemangiogenic cells and alpha-smooth muscle actin(+) (alpha-SMA(+)) stromal cells correlates with neoangiogenesis and progression in human non-Hodgkin's lymphoma subtypes. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Spatial localizations of vascular and stromal cells expressing CD34, VEGFR-1, alpha-SMA, and CD68 were examined by immunohistochemistry in 42 cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), and compared with benign follicular hyperplasia. RESULTS: Compared with indolent lymphomas, there was a profound increase in recruitment of CD68(+) cells and VEGFR-1(+) neovessels in aggressive subtypes (including those transformed from indolent subtypes), where CD68(+) cells were localized to the perivascular region of neovessels as well as the stromal compartment. The perivascular CD68(+) cells expressed VEGFR-1 and VEGF-A. In contrast, there was a diffuse increase in alpha-SMA incorporation throughout the  stromal compartment of indolent subtype of CLL/SLL compared with the scant perivascular pattern in aggressive subtypes. Overall, there was no correlation between CD34(+) microvessel density and lymphoma histologic subtype. CONCLUSIONS: Heightened stromal hemangiogenesis as marked by infiltration of proangiogenic VEGFR-1(+)CD68(+)VEGF-A(+) cells and their paracrine cross-talk with neovasculature appears to be a distinct feature of aggressive lymphoma, providing novel targets for antiangiogenic therapy, whereas alpha-SMA(+) stromal  vascular network may be differentially targeted in CLL/SLL."
1854	"Conventional treatment of hematologic malignancies mainly consists of chemotherapeutic agents or a combination of both, chemotherapy and monoclonal antibodies. Despite recent advances, chemotherapeutic treatments often remain unsatisfying due to severe side effects and incomplete long-term remission. Therefore the evaluation of novel therapeutic options is of great interest. B cell malignancies, in particularly follicular lymphomas, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma, represent the most immune-responsive types of all  human cancer. Several immunotherapeutic strategies are presently employed to combat these B-cell malignancies. Active immunotherapies include vaccination strategies with dendritic cells (DCs) and genetically-modified tumor cell preparations as well as DNA and protein vaccination. Most of these vaccines target the tumor-specific immunoglobulin idiotype and have already demonstrated some anti-lymphoma activity in early phase clinical trials while their definitive impact is evaluated in ongoing phase III randomized trials. In contrast to these  active immunizations, T cells transduced with chimeric antigen receptors and donor leukocyte infusions (DLI) represent adoptive (passive) immunotherapies. Recent advances of gene transduction technologies enabled improvement of immunotherapeutic strategies based on genetic modification of malignant cells or  adoptive T cells. Current early phase clinical trials are investigating the potential of these innovative approaches. At the moment it remains unclear if the novel immunotherapeutic strategies will be able to play a similar role in the treatment of B cell malignancies than the already established antibody-based immunotherapy."
1855	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) represents the most common leukemia among adults in the Western countries. CLL is a remarkably diverse disorder following an extremely variable clinical course. Some patients have an indolent disease that may never require treatment. In others a progressive clinical course is rapidly fatal. CLL affects mainly elderly individuals, but about a third of patients are less than 60 years of age at diagnosis. Traditionally, the therapeutic procedures were aimed at palliation, but over the recent years highly effective and potentially curative approaches such as combined antibody-chemotherapy and autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation have been developed. In parallel there has been progress in the understanding of pathogenesis and outcome prediction. The cornerstones to estimate prognosis are the clinical staging systems of Rai and Binet. To refine outcome prediction for individual patients there has been intensive work on biological factors of potential prognostic relevance. Among these, the genetic characteristics of the CLL cells that can be divided into genomic aberrations and the mutation status of the variable segments of immunoglobulin-heavy chain genes (VH) have attained considerable importance. In addition, data on gene expression of CLL cells are accumulating which further characterize the CLL subgroups. In this context, the expression of ZAP-70 has been recognized a useful surrogate marker to predict the VH mutation status and outcome of CLL patients. At present, targeted therapies are focused on humanized antibodies that bind proteins expressed on the surface of CLL cells. The most prominent agents of these are the anti-CD52 antibody alemtuzumab and the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab, which are currently being tested in clinical trials. To identify CLL-specific gene expression products as candidates for targeted therapies will be an important part of CLL research in the next years."
1856	"Immunotoxins, composed of protein toxins connected to cell binding ligands including monoclonal antibodies and growth factors, have been developed for several decades to target hematologic malignancies. Protein toxins from either plants or bacteria are extremely potent based on their enzymatic inhibition of protein synthesis and induction of apoptosis. Plant toxins, particularly ricin, are useful for chemically conjugating to monoclonal antibodies, and have shown clinical activity in several types of lymphoma and leukemia. Their dose is generally limited by vascular leak syndrome. Bacterial toxins have been used to produce single chain fusions with either growth factors or recombinant antibody fragments. These agents are smaller in size (55-65 kDa) and exit the bloodstream  much more rapidly than the chemical conjugates, and generally do not cause severe vascular leak syndrome. The only approved drug containing a protein toxin is denileukin diftitox, a fusion of human interleukin 2 with truncated diphtheria toxin. Denileukin diftitox has shown efficacy in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Recombinant immunotoxin BL22 is an anti-CD22 Fv fragment fused to truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin; it induces complete remissions in a high percentage of patients with chemoresistant  hairy cell leukemia. The anti-CD25 recombinant immunotoxin LMB-2 is active in several CD25+ hematologic malignancies. Several other recombinant immunotoxins are undergoing preclinical development for other target antigens expressed on hematologic malignancies."
1857	"A patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and thrombocytopenia who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and stenting is presented. Patients with these concomitant diseases who require invasive cardiac procedures are at increased risk for ischemic and bleeding complications and the choice of anticoagulation in these patients is critical. In the present case, anticoagulation was achieved with the direct thrombin inhibitor bivalirudin. No complications were reported, and the patient tolerated the procedure well. This case suggests that bivalirudin may be safely used in patients who are at an increased risk of bleeding undergoing PCI."
1860	"The molecular mechanisms involved in histologic transformation of follicular lymphoma (FL) and B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) to diffuse large B-cell  lymphoma (DLBCL) are heterogeneous and largely unknown. Here we explored whether  aberrant somatic hypermutation, leading to the acquisition of new mutations in PIM-1, PAX-5, RhoH/TTF and c-MYC genes, is involved in transformation from FL or  B-CLL to DLBCL. Eighteen sequential pairs of FL/DLBCL (n=9) and B-CLL/DLBCL (n=9) were investigated. Our findings demonstrate that acquisition of novel mutations due to aberrant somatic hypermutation was associated with DLBCL transformation in 5/9 (55.5%) cases of FL and 2/9 (22.2%) cases of B-CLL."
1863	"Locked nucleic acid (LNA) is a novel high-affinity and biologically stable RNA analog in which the normally flexible ribose sugar ring is fixed in a rigid conformation through a methylene 2'-O, 4'-C linkage. This fixed conformation brings substantial advantages to the design of effective RNA binding drugs, and enables single-stranded LNA oligonucleotides, termed 'RNA antagonists', to have superior efficacies in vivo in downregulating target mRNA when compared to oligonucleotides based on other chemistries or to published short interfering RNA. The features that allow LNA to be a valuable drug platform include unprecedented RNA binding affinity, excellent specificity, resistance to enzymatic degradation, safety, and ease of manufacture. Santaris Pharma A/S holds worldwide rights to the application of LNA in therapeutics, and is engaged in the clinical development of a series of drug candidates against cancer and metabolic  diseases. SPC-2996, the company's most advanced product in development, entered an international, open-label, multicenter, phase I/II clinical trial in patients  with severe chronic lymphocytic leukemia in May 2005. This trial is the first clinical evaluation of LNA chemistry. Two other LNA compounds have completed good laboratory practice safety studies with satisfactory outcome, and are likely to commence undergoing clinical development by 2007."
1864	"Members of the BCL-2 gene family are well known for their role in the pathogenesis of B-cell lymphomas in humans and in mouse models. A recent report that knockout mice deficient for the proapoptotic BCL-2 family member gene BAD frequently develop B-cell lymphomas prompted us to analyze a large collection of  human B-cell lymphomas for inactivating mutations in the BAD gene. All 3 exons of the BAD gene were amplified and directly sequenced. The 81 lymphomas analyzed included 16 cases of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 11 mantle-cell lymphomas, 10 follicular lymphomas, 7 MALT lymphomas, 8 Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines, 3 cell lines of multiple myeloma, 15 cases and 4 cell lines of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and 7 Hodgkin's lymphoma lines. No mutations were found in  any of the cases. We conclude that mutations in the BAD gene do not play a role in the pathogenesis of the major subtypes of human B-cell lymphomas."
1865	"PURPOSE: Retrospective studies suggest cytogenetic abnormalities detected by interphase fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) can identify patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who will experience a more aggressive disease  course. Other studies suggest that patients may acquire chromosome abnormalities  during the course of their disease. There are minimal prospective data on the clinical utility of the widely used hierarchical FISH prognostic categories in patients with newly diagnosed early-stage CLL or the frequency of clonal evolution as determined by interphase FISH. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1994 and 2002, we enrolled 159 patients with previously untreated CLL (83% Rai stage 0/I) on a prospective trial evaluating clonal evolution by FISH. Patients provided baseline and follow-up specimens for  FISH testing during 2 to 12 years. RESULTS: Chromosomal abnormalities detected by FISH at study entry predicted overall survival. Eighteen patients experienced clonal evolution during follow-up. The rate of clonal evolution increased with duration of follow-up with only one occurrence in the first 2 years (n = 71; 1.4%) but 17 occurrences (n = 63; 27%) among patients tested after 5+ years. Clonal evolution occurred among 10% of ZAP-70-negative and 42% of ZAP-70-positive patients at 5+ years (P = .008). CONCLUSION: This clinical trial confirms prospectively that cytogenetic abnormalities detected by FISH can predict overall survival for CLL patients at the time of diagnosis, but also suggests that many patients acquire new abnormalities during the course of their disease. Patients with higher ZAP-70 expression may be more likely to experience such clonal evolution. These findings have important implications for both clinical management and trials of early treatment for patients with high-risk, early-stage CLL."
1867	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia [CLL] is characterized by active accumulation of clonal CD5+/CD19+/CD23+ B cells. Individualized characterization of patient cell resistance/sensitivity to specific agents can provide important information  to guide therapy selection. We have utilized optophoresis, which is a technique for the analysis of the motion of cells within a moving optical gradient field. It detects the broad cellular changes associated with apoptosis based on physical characteristics of the cell, such as morphology, size, refractive index, density, and surface properties. We analyzed peripheral blood samples from 62 CLL patients in the presence of varying concentrations of chemotherapeutic agents. Optophoresis and a more conventional measurement of cell death were utilized. The outcome of ex vivo drug resistance using optophoresis was compared to clinical response in 30 patients for which there was clinical outcome data available. The  overall accuracy of optophoresis in reflecting clinical response was 80%. It has  advantages over alternative methods of determining chemoresistance including the  ability to evaluate very small sample sizes and ability to work in mixed-cell populations. Changes in cell physical characteristics in response to chemotherapy, as measured by optophoresis is an accurate method for predicting chemosensitivity ex vivo in CLL."
1868	"The -308 GA promoter polymorphism of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) has been reported to be associated with an increased risk of lymphoid malignancies in Caucasians. We studied the incidence and prognostic significance of this polymorphism in Chinese patients with plasma cell myeloma (PCM), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and lymphomas. Despite a far lower incidence of PCM and CLL in the Chinese population compared with Caucasians, the rates of TNFalpha-308A were similar to those in Caucasians, both in the study and control  populations. Similarly, there was no increased rate of TNFalpha-308A in all the lymphomas studied, irrespective of lineage. However, TNFalpha-308A is significantly associated with female CLL cases and confers a strong negative prognostic impact for Chinese CLL. These argue for a possible biological role for increased TNFalpha production in CLL progression in low-risk individuals."
1870	"One-hundred-and-thirty typical, unselected CLL cases were studied by conventional cytogenetic analysis. Seventy-three patients (56.2%) had normal karyotype ('normal sub-group'), while 57/130 patients (43.8%) had abnormal karyotype. Twenty-two of 57 patients (38.6%) carried more than one abnormality. Six novel chromosomal abnormalities were detected in five patients: (i) t(3;13)(q14;q34); (ii) t(Y;11)(q12;q23), del(13)(q12q14); (iii) dic(3;11)(p21;q23); (iv) t(3;5)(q29;q23); (v) t(3;22) (p21;q13); and (vi) t(1;13)(p12;q12). Three of five  patients carrying novel translocations had progressive disease. The true biological and clinical significance of novel chromosomal abnormalities remains to be determined."
1871	"T-cell based immunotherapies might be a novel option for the treatment of B-cell  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), a disease characterized by a prolonged natural course. Different strategies of active immunotherapy have been tested in  vitro to enhance a specific T-cell response against tumor cells and an anti-leukemic effect has been observed in B-CLL patients after allogenic stem cell transplantation. Several antigens have been characterized as tumor/leukemia  associated antigens (T/LAAs) in B-CLL with the potential to elicit specific anti-tumor response encompassing idiotype immunoglobulin, oncofetal antigen-immature laminin receptor protein (OFAiLRP), survivin, as well as fibromodulin, the receptor for hyaluronic acid mediated motility (RHAMM/CD168) and the murine double-minute 2 oncoprotein (MDM2). This study presents an overview of possible targets and genetherapeutical maneuvers for future immunotherapies of B-CLL patients and summarizes recent clinical vaccination trials with dendritic cells (DCs) for B-CLL."
1873	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is one of the most common malignant lymphoid diseases in the western world and is frequently diagnosed by internists. There have been clinically significant changes in method of diagnosis, prognostic tools, supportive care, and treatment over the past 2 decades. Most patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia now have Rai stage 0 or I disease at diagnosis. Patients with early-stage disease are a heterogeneous group: Approximately 30% to 50% will have accelerated disease progression, and the remainder may live for decades and possibly never require therapy. Recent insights into the biological characteristics of leukemic B cells have led to the discovery of new prognostic tools (immunoglobulin variable-region heavy chain gene mutation status, cytogenetic abnormalities assessed by fluorescent in situ hybridization, and Z-chain-associated protein kinase-70 protein expression) that can identify patients with early-stage disease who are at high risk for early disease progression. These tools allow physicians to individualize counseling, follow-up, and management on the basis of disease risk. In addition, new treatments developed over the past 2 decades (purine nucleoside analogues, monoclonal antibodies, and combination chemoimmunotherapy regimens) have dramatically improved response rates and appear to prolong survival. In this review, the authors discuss the current work-up of lymphocytosis and highlight how to use recently identified prognostic tools to stratify risk in patients with newly diagnosed, early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Recommendations for patient  counseling, follow-up, supportive care, and initial treatment are presented for each risk category."
1874	"A high incidence of autologous graft-versus-host-disease (auto-GVHD) was observed after an alemtuzumab-containing conditioning regimen and autologous stem cell transplantation (auto-SCT) for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Skin rash developed in almost all surviving patients (87%). In 7 patients (58%), a diagnosis of auto-GVHD was made (compared with 0% after TBI/Cy; P = .01). All patients with auto-GVHD required immunosuppression, and 3 of 7 were hospitalized  because of GVHD. The median duration of GVHD was 517 days (range, 60-867 days). Auto-GVHD was associated with an abnormally high CD4/CD8 ratio because of severe  depletion of CD8(+) T cells, pointing to a potential pathomechanism. High non-relapse-related mortality led to the discontinuation of the trial. Current results do not support the use of high-dose alemtuzumab combined with total body  irradiation (TBI) and autologous stem cell transplantation (auto-SCT). However, the addition of alemtuzumab led to improved disease control at the molecular level. Longer follow-up will show whether the GVHD-like syndrome may contribute to prolonged minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity."
1875	"BACKGROUND: Hodgkin transformation is a rare complication of chronic lymphocytic  leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL). In this study, the authors assessed the incidence, presenting characteristics, and outcomes of patients with CLL/SLL who developed Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). METHODS: An electronic database search of patients with CLL/SLL who presented at  The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center Department of Leukemia between 1975 and 2005 was performed. RESULTS: Among 4121 patients with CLL/SLL, 18 patients (0.4%) developed HL. Presenting features included B-symptoms (67%), lymph node enlargement (79%), splenomegaly (43%), hepatomegaly (29%), hypercalcemia (6%), infection (6%), and mental status changes (6%). The median age was 72 years (range, 49-81 years), and there was a male preponderance (78%). The median time from CLL to HL diagnosis was 4.6 years (range, 0-12.9 years). Fourteen patients (78%) had been previously  treated for CLL/SLL. Ten patients (56%) had received >1 prior therapy. The median beta2-microglobulin level was 4.5 mg/L, and the median lactate dehydrogenase level was 610 IU/L. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was positive by in situ hybridization for EBV-encoded RNA in 3 of 4 tested patients. Fourteen patients (78%) received chemotherapy. The overall response rate was 44% (complete response rate, 19%). The median overall survival duration was 0.8 years (range, 0.03 years-6.7+ years). The median failure-free survival (FFS) duration was 0.4 years. CONCLUSIONS: The rates of response, survival, and FFS in patients with Hodgkin transformation of CLL/SLL were inferior to those reported in patients with de novo HL and were similar to those in patients with Richter syndrome."
1876	"Palatal involvement in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is rare and has only been reported 3 previous times in the non-radiology literature. To our knowledge  this is the first imaging description of this entity. Based on our experience, when smoothly lobulated, homogeneous masses are identified on the oral surface of the hard palate, the diagnosis of CLL should be considered."
1877	"Transformation of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) to large cell lymphoma or Hodgkin's disease is known as a Richter's syndrome (RS). According to the literature, 1-10% of B-CLL patients develop this high-grade lymphoid malignancy. The relationship between the immunosuppressive effect of nucleoside analogues (NA) and monoclonal antibodies and the development of large cell transformation still remains a controversial issue. We describe a CLL patient who developed a large B cell lymphoma 94 months after diagnosis and 3 months after the start of alemtuzumab. The CLL immunophenotype was retained by the transforming cells although a different light chain was expressed. Molecular analysis of the immunoglobulin heavy chain confirmed that the CLL and the RS had  a different clonal origin. Subsequent molecular analyses of stored samples showed that the clone with transforming capacity already appeared two years before the clinical appearance of the RS. We hypothesize that alemtuzumab promoted the uncontrolled growth of the latest clone by eradicating the initial B-CLL clone efficiently, and by inducing a strong T cell depletion with consequent impairment of the immunosurveillance. We also ruled out that the RS was EBV driven. In conclusion, we report a case of EBV negative RS after alemtuzumab as salvage therapy."
1878	"Granulocyte colony stimulation factor (G-CSF) is commonly used in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression. We report the case of a 62-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who presented with neutropenic fever and sepsis. After treatment with G-CSF he developed Sweet's syndrome. Sweet's syndrome is a rare disorder but has been associated with cancer recurrence as well as administration of G-CSF. We present clinical and pathologic images that highlight the salient features of this entity."
1880	"BACKGROUND: The Veterans Affairs North Texas Health Care System in Dallas, TX, provides a unique opportunity for clinical pharmacists to work as providers. Even though clinical pharmacists are actively involved in patient care, many of their  efforts remain undocumented, resulting in an underestimation of the importance of their services and missed opportunities for improvements and new directions. OBJECTIVE: To document and evaluate the services of a hematology/oncology clinical pharmacy in the outpatient setting. METHODS: Pendragon Forms 3.2 software was used to design the documentation template. The template was designed to collect diagnoses, supportive care issues, drug-specific interventions, and prescriptions written. This template was uploaded to the personal digital assistant (PDA) for documentation. Patient-specific information was documented in a password-protected PDA. Data collected from November 1, 2002, to October 31, 2003, were retrospectively analyzed. RESULTS: Clinical pharmacists were involved in 423 patient visits for chemotherapy follow-up or disease management. Cancer diagnoses included colorectal (n = 99), multiple myeloma (59), non-small cell lung (56), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (44), myelodysplastic syndromes (22), and chronic myelogenous leukemia (19). During the 423 patient visits, 342 supportive care issues were addressed including anemia (34%), pain management (22%), constipation/diarrhea (15%), and nausea/vomiting (8%). Major drug-specific interventions included drug addition (41%), discontinuation (23%), and adjustment (21%). Four hundred forty-five prescriptions were filled, of which 181 were new and 150 were refilled. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study, as of July 25, 2006, to document considerable contribution of an outpatient clinical pharmacist in direct cancer patient care. Although the disease management and supportive care issues addressed here may differ based on institution and patient population, the results of our study show that clinical pharmacists have ever-growing roles in the management of these patients."
1882	"BACKGROUND: Infections are a major factor in the clinical course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and account for 30% to 50% of all deaths. The pathogenesis of infections in CLL is related to hypo-gamma-globulinemia, T-cell immune dysfunction, and the immunosuppressive effect of treatment. METHODS: The authors retrospectively assessed the correlations between new prognostic markers and types of infections encountered, the time taken to develop these infections, and infection-related mortality in 280 unselected patients with CLL. RESULTS: One hundred patients (36%) had at least 1 major infection (median, 2 major infections; range, 1-8 major infections) over a median follow-up of 67 months. Infections were the most common cause of death, accounting for 51% of all fatalities. Older age (P = .007), clinical Stage B or C disease (P < .001), unmutated immunoglobulin (Ig)VH gene status (P < .001), genetic abnormalities (P  < .001), positive CD38 status (P < .001), and type of initial therapy were associated with a significantly shorter time to first infection. Equally, patient age (P < .001), disease stage (P < .001), CD38 expression (P < .001), IgVH mutation status (P < .001), and genetic abnormalities (P = .003) had a significant impact on infection-related mortality. CONCLUSIONS: Clinical stage at diagnosis, IgVH mutation status, and initial therapy were possible predictors of severe infections in patients with CLL. The current results may help to identify which patients with CLL are at particularly  high risk of developing serious infections and, thus, should be considered for Ig or antibiotic prophylaxis."
1883	"Therapeutic options are limited and the prognosis is poor for patients with fludarabine-refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Bortezomib induces apoptosis in vitro in CLL cells, both alone and in combination, including in cells resistant to fludarabine or other agents. The aim of the current randomized, open-label, Phase II study was to investigate the clinical activity of bortezomib in patients with fludarabine-refractory B-cell CLL. Twenty-two patients with histologically confirmed B-cell CLL were treated with bortezomib at doses of 1.0 mg/m2, 1.3 mg/m2, or 1.5 mg/m2 on Days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of a 21-day treatment cycle for a maximum of 9 cycles. None of 19 patients evaluable for response achieved complete remission or partial response; however, signs of biologic activity based on disease site responses (e.g., reduction in lymphocytosis, splenomegaly, and lymphadenopathy) were observed. In the 1.5 mg/m2 dose group, a higher proportion of patients had stable disease, and a lower proportion had progressive disease compared with the 2 lower-dose groups. Eleven  patients, all in the 2 higher dose groups, experienced Grade 3/4 adverse events (AEs) (according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria [version 2.0]); 2 patients experienced Grade 4 neutropenia. Grade 3 hematologic AEs included anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and hemolytic anemia; Grade 3 nervous system AEs included aphasia; peripheral neuropathy, not otherwise specified; and peripheral sensory neuropathy. Although no objective responses were achieved in patients with fludarabine-refractory B-cell CLL, single-agent bortezomib demonstrated biologic activity. In view of the evidence for its activity, further exploration of bortezomib in combination with other agents is warranted."
1886	"PURPOSE: Everolimus (RAD001, Novartis), an oral derivative of rapamycin, inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), which regulates many aspects of cell growth and division. A phase I/II study was done to determine safety and efficacy of everolimus in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Two dose levels (5 and 10 mg orally once daily continuously) were evaluated in the phase I portion of this study to determine the maximum tolerated dose of everolimus to be used in the phase II study. RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients (9 acute myelogenous leukemia, 5 myelodysplastic syndrome, 6 B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 4 mantle cell lymphoma, 1 myelofibrosis, 1 natural killer cell/T-cell leukemia, and 1 T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia) received everolimus. No dose-limiting toxicities were observed. Grade 3 potentially drug-related toxicities included hyperglycemia (22%), hypophosphatemia (7%), fatigue (7%), anorexia (4%), and diarrhea (4%). One patient developed a cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis requiring a skin graft. One patient with refractory anemia with excess blasts achieved a major platelet response of over 3-month duration. A second patient with refractory anemia with excess blasts showed a minor platelet response of 25-day duration. Phosphorylation of downstream targets of mTOR, eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1, and/or, p70 S6 kinase, was inhibited in six of nine patient samples, including those from the patient with a major platelet response. CONCLUSIONS: Everolimus is well tolerated at a daily dose of 10 mg daily and may  have activity in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Studies of everolimus in combination with therapeutic agents directed against other components of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt/mTOR pathway are warranted."
1887	"The anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab is highly active in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in patients with previously treated, relapsed, and/or refractory CLL as well as in patients with previously untreated  disease. The general immunosuppressive impact and toxicities associated with alemtuzumab therapy are largely predictable and manageable. In particular, cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation is now a well-documented complication in patients receiving alemtuzumab. This article discusses several strategies for monitoring and treating CMV reactivation in patients with CLL receiving alemtuzumab-based therapy and provides practical recommendations for CMV management by building upon the guidelines published previously in 2004."
1888	"B-lymphocyte stimulator/B-cell activating factor (BLyS/BAFF) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), members of the tumor necrosis family of ligands, are expressed by monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells, and increased expression of these ligands is noted in lymphomas and plasma cell malignancies. BLyS and APRIL are essential for the survival of normal and malignant B lymphocytes, and altered expression of BLyS or APRIL or the receptors B-cell maturation, transmembrane activator and calcium-modulating cyclophilin ligand interactor, or BAFF-R have been reported in various B-cell malignancies, including B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's  lymphoma, multiple myeloma, and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Levels of BLyS (in the tumor and in the serum) increased with the transformation of the tumors to a more aggressive phenotype. A high BLyS level inversely correlated with a poor median overall survival, presence of constitutional symptoms, and increased  levels of lactate dehydrogenase in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Additionally, patients who responded to therapy had a lower BLyS level than those with progressive disease. Several agents targeting BLyS and APRIL are currently being pursued in phase I clinical studies in patients with B-cell malignancies."
1889	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is unique among malignancies since it represents an accumulation of B-lymphocytes resistant to apoptosis. Several factors are thought to confer this unusual feature to a CLL B-cell. Misbalance between cytoplasmic pro-survival and pro-death molecules, such as Bcl-2, Mcl-1 and alike, appears to be one of the key factors defining B-cell longevity. Autocrine pathways, such as vascular endothelial growth factor-receptor pathway,  also contribute to survival. The role of B-cell receptor (BCR) is less straightforward. In the last decade it became clear that CLL does not constitute  a uniform disease, but, based on the prevalence of mutations in the BCR heavy chain (IgVH), can be classified into two distinct subgroups. Several molecular markers correlate with IgVH mutations. Some of them, like zeta-chain associated protein kinase, are also involved in BCR signaling and influence cell cycle. Yet  the primary pathogenic event leading to increased proliferation and survival in CLL is difficult to ascertain. Molecules involved in BCR signaling pathways and cytoplasmic pro-survival players probably act in concert to confer resistance to  apoptosis. In this respect, the role of the B-CLL environment, which includes nurse-like cells and T-cells, cannot be underestimated. Nurse-like cells provide  stimuli necessary for perpetuation of life in CLL. On the other hand, abnormal T-cell function, whether it is excessive immunosuppression delivered by regulatory T-cells or insufficient anti-tumor immunity rendered by T-helpers, allows malignant CLL cells to go unnoticed by the cellular immune system."
1890	"AIM: To evaluate leptin and resistin levels in patients with various hematologic  malignancies. METHODS: We included 21 patients with lymphoma, 14 with multiple myeloma (MM), 14 with acute leukemia, 13 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and 25 healthy control subjects into our study. The subjects' body mass indexes (BMI) were calculated; hematological and acute phase response parameters, serum lipid were determined; serum leptin and resistin levels were determined by ELISA. RESULTS: Serum leptin level was significantly increased in CLL and MM groups when compared to the control group (p less, similar 0.01). Resistin level was significantly higher in lymphoma patients than in CLL, acute leukemia and control groups (p less, similar 0.01). In the control group, leptin level was negatively  correlated with hemoglobin level (r = -0.44, p = 0.047); and in all patients with hematologic malignancies, leptin level was correlated with BMI (r = 0.32, p = 0.02). Leptin in lymphoma subjects correlated with hemoglobin level (r = 0.64, p  = 0.005), resistin level correlated with the platelet count in patients with hematologic malignancies (r = 0.26, p = 0.044). In addition, leptin level had negative correlations with international prognostic score (IPS) in Hodgkin lymphoma (r = -0.9, p = 0.002) and with international prognostic index (IPI) in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (r = -0.77, p = 0.03). In CLL patients, leptin level had a correlation with the poor prognostic marker - CD38 level (r = 0.68, p = 0.03). CONCLUSION: We found higher leptin levels in MM and CLL patients, and higher resistin levels in lymphoma patients: this fact demonstrates that changes in adipose tissue and metabolism occur in these disease states."
1891	"Multiple options are now available for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Over the last 10 years, monoclonal antibodies have become an integral part of the management of this disease. Alemtuzumab has received approval for use in patients with fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Rituximab has been investigated extensively in chronic lymphocytic leukemia both as a single agent and in combination with chemotherapy and other monoclonal antibodies. Epratuzumab and lumiliximab are newer monoclonal antibodies in the early phase of clinical development. This article will review the monoclonal antibodies more commonly used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the results  obtained with monoclonal antibodies as single agents and in combination with chemotherapy, and other biological agents and newer compounds undergoing clinical trials."
1893	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) consists of at least 2 subtypes with  either somatically mutated or unmutated immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region (IgVH) genes. A prognostic significance of the infiltration pattern in bone marrow trephine biopsy has been described before. The combined pattern analysis and detection of 70-kd zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) expression in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded bone marrow trephines has not been investigated so far. To evaluate the relationship between ZAP-70 expression, mutation status,  and the infiltration pattern in B-CLL, we analyzed bone marrow trephine biopsies  from B-CLL patients (n = 35). The expression of ZAP-70 was related to the infiltration type: in all samples with diffuse infiltration pattern, the leukemic cells showed ZAP-70 staining, whereas leukemic cells in a nodular infiltration pattern were negative. By contrast, the mixed-pattern type showed a variable ZAP-70 expression. Besides definitely negative or positive ZAP-70 expression, a few samples showed a faint ZAP-70 staining, and the classification into the positive or negative group was difficult. In addition, the infiltration type was  related to the mutation status in a subset of samples: mutation of the IgVH gene  was restricted to the nondiffuse infiltration pattern and was not found in cases  with diffuse infiltration of bone marrow. The expression of ZAP-70, detected by an immunohistochemical assay and also by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction assigned 83% of the chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases to the suspected immunoglobulin mutation subtype. In 2 patients with ZAP-70 expression, a mutated IgVH status was found. These cases exhibited a  mixed pattern of infiltration. We conclude that the pure nodular type of marrow infiltration in B-CLL is associated with IgH hypermutation and ZAP-70 negativity, whereas the predominantly diffuse type of infiltration reveals unmutated IgH genes with ZAP-70 overexpression. The mixed type of infiltration is displayed by  mutated as well as unmutated cases with a varying pattern of ZAP-70 expression."
1894	"A new family of Ig domain receptors referred to as the immune receptor translocation-associated (IRTA) proteins, FcR homologs (FcRHs) or FcR-like that are expressed in lymphoid cells has been recently described. RNA expression analysis suggests that FcRH1-5/IRTA1-5 are expressed exclusively in subsets of the B-cell compartment. We generated mAbs to FcRH1-5/IRTA1-5 and examined their protein expression pattern in normal tissue and in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Our data indicated that FcRH1-5/IRTA1-5 were expressed in B-cell sub-populations; however, in some cases, the protein was not expressed in the same B-cell populations as suggested by the RNA expression analysis. FcRH1/IRTA5  was expressed throughout the B-cell lineage starting at the pro-B-cell stage but  was down-regulated in plasma cells. FcRH2/IRTA4 was expressed preferentially in memory B cells. FcRH3/IRTA3 was expressed at low levels in naive, germinal center (GC) and memory B cells but was also expressed in NK cells. FcRH4/IRTA1 was expressed in a sub-population of memory B cells associated with mucosal tissue. FcRH5/IRTA2 was expressed in mature B cells and memory B cells and down-regulated in GC cells and, unlike all other B-cell-specific markers, maintained its expression in plasma cells from tonsil, spleen and bone marrow. We examined the expression of FcRH1-5/IRTA1-5 on the surface of CLL cells and found a similar pattern of expression on CLL cells as in the normal mature B cells, except for FcRH3/IRTA3 which was up-regulated in CLL."
1899	"Major recent advances in understanding the biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL) have improved clinical evaluation and influenced treatment decisions. CLL can be diagnosed early and accurately, and biological measurements can be used to predict a prognosis at diagnosis. Individual patient care can be risk stratified to optimize benefit and minimize complications of therapy. Purine analogs and monoclonal antibodies have markedly  improved the efficacy of initial therapy but are not curative. The treatment of relapsed and refractory CLL is less successful. However, recent developments suggest that allogeneic stem cell transplant could have a larger role in a selected group of these patients. Potential new treatment modalities include targeted molecules that interrupt key components of CLL cell survival pathways, and active and passive immunotherapy. The management of CLL is in a dynamic phase of rapid evolution. Risk stratification using biological prognostic markers can improve current patient care and direct future clinical research."
1900	"The Wnt pathway has been shown recently, to be activated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This is the first study to examine the role of Wnt inhibitory factor-1 (Wif-1) methylation in the pathogenesis of haematolymphoid malignancies. Wif-1, a putative tumor suppressor, is a soluble negative regulator of the Wnt pathway activated in CLL. We studied the role of methylation of Wif-1  in 43 Chinese patients with CLL. At diagnosis, Wif-1 methylation was detected in  5/43 (11.6%) CLL marrow samples. Wif-1 methylation occurred more frequently in patients with advanced age (p = 0.059) but there was no correlation between Wif-1 methylation and sex, lymphocyte count and Rai stage at diagnosis. In conclusion,  Wif-1 is infrequently methylated in CLL. Other factors leading to activation of the Wnt pathway warrant further study."
1902	"Extracts of the plant St John's wort, Hyperforin perforatum L., have been used for centuries in traditional medicine, notably for the treatment of depression. One of their main lipophilic components, a natural prenylated phloroglucinol termed hyperforin (HF), has been identified as the major molecule responsible for the antidepressant effects of this plant. Within the last few years, a number of  studies have demonstrated that HF displays, in addition, several other biological properties of potential pharmacological interest. They include an antibacterial capacity and inhibitory effects on inflammatory mediators. It is worth noting that HF also promotes apoptosis of various cancer cells from solid tumors and hematological malignancies, including B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In addition, HF inhibits the capacity of migration and invasion of different tumor cells, as well as exhibiting antiangiogenic effects. Altogether, these properties qualify HF as a lead structure for the development of new therapeutic molecules in the treatment of various diseases, including some malignant tumors."
1903	"Defects in the apoptotic pathway are pathogenetically important in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and follicular lymphoma. To further understand these defects, we profiled the apoptotic gene expression of these two neoplasms. Oligonucleotide arrays with 112 apoptotic genes were used, and data analysis was  performed on seven chronic lymphocytic leukemia and 10 follicular lymphoma frozen tumor samples from six and seven patients, respectively. The overall gene expression pattern was strikingly similar among all 17 samples, regardless of the type of lymphoma and history of chemotherapy exposure. MCL1, TNFRSF1B and TNFRSF7 were highly expressed in most cases. The apoptotic gene expression between the groups of untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n=3) and untreated follicular lymphoma (n=6) was also similar (Pearson correlation coefficient, 0.94). Comparison between the groups of untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n=3) and postchemotherapy chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n=4) revealed six genes with >2-fold changes, including BIRC5/Survivin that was higher in the postchemotherapy samples. This finding was validated by immunohistochemistry. Similar analysis of  follicular lymphoma cases did not identify any significant differences. To conclude, our findings suggest that chronic lymphocytic leukemia and follicular lymphoma share common apoptotic defects, and highlight the importance of MCL1 and the TNF pathway. Upregulation of survivin may be one of the mechanisms by which chronic lymphocytic leukemia becomes desensitized to chemotherapy."
1904	"This study was undertaken to characterize preclinical cytotoxic interactions for  human malignancies between the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) and  proteasome inhibitors bortezomib or MG132. Multiple tumor cell lines of varying histiotypes, including A549 (lung adenocarcinoma), 786-O (renal cell carcinoma),  HeLa (cervical carcinoma), MDA-MB-231 (breast), K562 (chronic myelogenous leukemia), Jurkat (acute T-cell leukemia), MEC-2 (B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia), and U251 and D37 (glioma), as well as cells derived from primary human glioma tumors that are likely a more clinically relevant model were treated with  sorafenib or bortezomib alone or in combination. Sorafenib and bortezomib synergistically induced a marked increase in mitochondrial injury and apoptosis,  reflected by cytochrome c release, caspase-3 cleavage, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase degradation in a broad range of solid tumor and leukemia cell lines. These findings were accompanied by several biochemical changes, including decreased phosphorylation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2, platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta, and Akt and increased phosphorylation of stress-related c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK). Inhibition of  Akt was required for synergism, as a constitutively active Akt protected cells against apoptosis induced by the combination. Alternatively, the JNK inhibitor SP600125 could also protect cells from apoptosis induced by the combination, indicating that both inhibition of Akt and activation of JNK were required for the synergism. These findings show that sorafenib interacts synergistically with  bortezomib to induce apoptosis in a broad spectrum of neoplastic cell lines and show an important role for the Akt and JNK pathways in mediating synergism. Further clinical development of this combination seems warranted."
1905	"Functional single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) C3435T in exon 26 of the MDR1 ( ABCB1 ) gene encoding the xenobiotic transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp, MDR1, ABCB1) may influence susceptibility to several diseases as well as clinical outcome of treatment with P-gp substrates. Exposure to environmental chemicals is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and P-gp-transported drugs are used in its treatment; however, little is  known about the impact of the C3435T MDR1 SNP in B-CLL. In this study, 110 Caucasian B-CLL patients and 201 healthy controls were genotyped for the MDR1 C3435T SNP. Additionally, P-gp activity was assessed in malignant lymphocytes of  22 untreated B-CLL patients. We observed a higher frequency of carriers of at least one 3435T allele (3435CT and 3435TT genotypes) among B-CLL patients as compared to normal individuals (76% vs . 63%, p=0.027). The genotypes 3435CT and  3435TT were associated with B-CLL, (odds ratio=1.8, 95% confidence interval = 1.1-3.0). Moreover, P-gp activity in B-CLL cells depended on MDR1 genotype, with  the highest P-gp activity in 3435CC homozygotes, intermediate in 3435CT heterozygotes and the lowest in 3435TT homozygotes (p=0.042). P-gp activity was also significantly lower in carriers of the T-allele (3435CT/TT genotype) as compared to the non-carriers (3435CC genotype), (p=0.029). Taken together, these  data indicate that the MDR1 C3435T SNP may carry an increased risk of developing  B-CLL, possibly by virtue of decreased protection against P-gp-substrate carcinogens. The differences in P-gp activity in B-CLL tumor cells related to MDR1 genotype may have implications to the response to chemotherapy with P-gp transported anticancer agents."
1907	"A new mutation (V617F) affecting the JAK2 gene has been recently described as acquired in patients with myeloproliferative disorders and other myeloid malignancies. Using an amplification refractory mutation system, we investigated  this mutation in 70 Mexican mestizo patients with hematological malignancies: 28  cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 17 cases of Ph1-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia, 8 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia, 6 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 6 patients with polycythemia vera (PV), two patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET), one patient with hypereosinophilic  syndrome one patient with primary myelofibrosis (MF) and one patient with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. The mutation was identified in 4 of 6 patients with PV,  in one of 2 patients with ET and in the patient with MF. Our data add to the observation that the JAK2 V617F mutation seems to be rather uncommon in myeloid malignancies other than the classic BCR/ABL negative MPD."
1908	"Drug development in human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been limited by  lack of a suitable animal model to adequately assess pharmacologic properties relevant to clinical application. A recently described TCL-1 transgenic mouse develops a chronic B-cell CD5(+) leukemia that might be useful for such studies.  Following confirmation of the natural history of this leukemia in the transgenic  mice, we demonstrated that the transformed murine lymphocytes express relevant therapeutic targets (Bcl-2, Mcl-1, AKT, PDK1, and DNMT1), wild-type p53 status, and in vitro sensitivity to therapeutic agents relevant to the treatment of human CLL. We then demonstrated the in vivo clinical activity of low-dose fludarabine in transgenic TCL-1 mice with active leukemia. These studies demonstrated both early reduction in blood-lymphocyte count and spleen size and prolongation of survival (P = .046) compared with control mice. Similar to human CLL, an emergence of resistance was noted with fludarabine treatment in vivo. Overall, these studies suggest that the TCL-1 transgenic leukemia mouse model has similar  clinical and therapeutic response properties to human CLL and may therefore serve as a useful in vivo tool to screen new drugs for subsequent development in CLL."
1909	"The absence of mutations in the IgV genes, together with the presence of ZAP-70 and CD38, are the most reliable negative prognostic markers for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. Several lines of evidence indicate that CD38 may be not only a diagnostic marker but also a key element in the pathogenetic network in CLL. First, CD38 is a receptor that induces proliferation and increases survival of CLL cells. Second, CD38 signals start upon interaction with the CD31 ligand expressed by stromal and nurse-like cells. Third, CD38/CD31 contacts up-regulate CD100, a semaphorin involved in sustaining CLL growth. Fourth, evidence that nurselike cells express high levels of CD31 and plexin-B1,  the high-affinity ligand for CD100, offers indirect confirmation for this model of receptor cross-talk. Elements of variation in the clinical course of CD38(+) CLL patients include (1) potential intersection with ZAP-70, a kinase involved in the CD38 signaling pathway in T and natural killer (NK) cells, and (2) the effects of genetic polymorphisms of the receptors involved, at least of CD38 and  CD31. Consequently, CD38 together with ZAP-70 appear to be the key elements of a  coreceptor pathway that may sustain the signals mediated by the B-cell receptor and potentially by chemokines and their receptors. This would result in acquisition of increased survival potential, providing clues to the poorer prognosis of CD38(+) patients."
1910	"The most frequent autoimmune complication in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA). There are various treatment modalities; however, there is not much experience with the use of the chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab in the autoimmune complications of CLL. Here, we present our patient with CLL and AIHA whose AIHA was unresponsive to various treatment modalities. The administration of 375 mg/m(2)/day rituximab weekly for  four cycles halted hemolysis and resulted in resolution of the patient's anemia.  One year after therapy, the patient is well with a normal blood count. Rituximab  might be preferred over other treatment modalities in the autoimmune complications of CLL because it is effective and has fewer side effects than other therapies."
1911	"Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is a well-known complication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In recent years the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab has been used for the therapy of steroid-refractory AIHA and autoimmune thrombocytopenia, either idiopathic or in association with CLL. We report the results of rituximab treatment for 14 patients suffering from CLL-associated AIHA. They developed a direct antiglobulin test positive AIHA at a mean time of 47 months (range 0-135 months) from the diagnosis of CLL. In 3 cases AIHA was diagnosed at the same time as CLL. Only 1 patient had fludarabine-related AIHA. All patients received steroids as first-line treatment. At a mean time of 46 days (range 1-210 days) from the diagnosis of AIHA all patients received rituximab at  a dosage of 375 mg/m(2)/weekly for 4 weeks. All patients except 3 (2 died of cardiac failure or sepsis soon after the third cycle and 1 HCV-positive patient experienced a rise in serum amino transferases) completed the scheduled four programmed cycles. First injection side effects of rituximab were minimal. All but 2 patients showed an increase in hemoglobin levels in response to rituximab (mean value 3.6 g/dl; range 0.7-10 g/dl) and a reduction in the absolute lymphocyte count and lymph nodes and spleen volume. Nine patients required packed red cell transfusions before starting rituximab; 5 no longer needed transfusions  just after the second cycle and another patient after the fourth cycle. Three patients (22%) were considered to fully respond and 7 (50%) only responded partially. At a mean follow-up of 17 months, 8 patients were still alive, 6 of them transfusion-free. Our results prove that the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody is an effective and well-tolerated alternative treatment for CLL-associated AIHA."
1912	"We report the case of a patient treated with a combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide after suffering from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia for 10  years. Three months after treatment, the patient presented with an unusual association, not previously reported in the literature: Richter syndrome (monotypic Epstein-Barr virus- negative large B-cell lymphoma) with the proliferation of Epstein-Barr virus-positive B cells secreting a polytypic immunoglobulin A. The Epstein-Barr virus-positive lymphoproliferation can be accounted for by the type of immunosuppression induced by the treatment."
1913	"The clinical course of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is variable, and novel biologic parameters need to be added to the clinical staging systems to predict an indolent or aggressive outcome. We investigated the 70-kDa zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70), CD38, soluble CD23 (sCD23), and cytogenetics in 289 patients with B-CLL. Both a shorter progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were observed in ZAP-70(+) (P < .001), in CD38(+) (P < .001) and in sCD23(+) patients (P < .001 and P = .013, respectively). ZAP-70(+)CD38(+) or ZAP-70(+) patients with an unmutated IgV(H) status showed both a shorter PFS (P < .001) and OS (P < .001 and P < .001, respectively) as compared with ZAP-70(-)/CD38(-) or ZAP-70(-) patients with mutated IgV(H) genes.  Discordant patients showed an intermediate outcome. Note, ZAP-70(+) patients even if CD38(-) or mutated showed a shorter PFS, whereas ZAP-70(-) patients even if CD38(+) or unmutated had a longer PFS. Furthermore, ZAP-70 positivity was associated with a shorter PFS both within normal karyotype (P < .001) and within  the poor-risk cytogenetic subset (P = .02). The predictive value of ZAP-70 expression was confirmed in multivariate analysis. Thus, ZAP-70 protein determined by flow cytometry improves the prognostic significance of cytogenetics and appears to be a better predictor of outcomes than IgV(H) gene mutational status. On this line, we recommend and are also interested in conducting a prospective randomized trial of early intervention versus observation for ZAP-70(+) patients."
1914	"We investigated the association of plasma thrombopoietin (TPO) and overall survival in 127 patients with previously treated and previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Higher levels of TPO were associated with advanced Rai stage (P < .001), higher levels of beta(2)-microglobulin (beta2-M) (P < .001), and the absence of mutation in the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgV(H)) (P < .001), and were inversely correlated with platelet count (P  = .002). We found that TPO correlated strongly in a continuous manner with overall survival in both previously treated and untreated patients. The univariate Cox proportional hazard model demonstrated that high TPO levels were associated with shorter survival (P < .001), and multiple variable Cox proportional hazards regression analysis demonstrated that this was independent of the IgV(H) mutation status, beta2-M, and Rai stage. Recursive partitioning showed that a cutoff point of 639 pg/mL separated the CLL patients into 2 major survival groups (P < .001). The effects of beta2-M were masked by the effects of  TPO in the patients with TPO levels higher than 639 pg/mL, but in the remainder,  patients with beta2-M level higher than 4.95 mg/L had significantly shorter survival than those with lower values. Plasma TPO and beta2-M may be useful for the prediction of clinical behavior in CLL and may replace the need for the determination of IgV(H) mutation status."
1915	"Although TP53 mutations are rare in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), Mdm2 overexpression has been reported as an alternative cause of p53 dysfunction. We investigated the potential therapeutic use of nongenotoxic p53 activation by a small-molecule antagonist of Mdm2, Nutlin-3a, in CLL. Nutlin-3a induced significant apoptosis in 30 (91%) of 33 samples from previously untreated patients with CLL; all resistant samples had TP53 mutations. Low levels of Atm (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) or high levels of Mdm2 (murine double minute 2) did not prevent Nutlin-3a from inducing apoptosis. Nutlin-3a used transcription-dependent and transcription-independent pathways to induce p53-mediated apoptosis. Predominant activation of the transcription-independent pathway induced more pronounced apoptosis than that of the transcription-dependent pathway, suggesting that activation of the transcription-independent pathway is sufficient to initiate p53-mediated apoptosis in CLL. Combination treatment of Nutlin-3a and fludarabine synergistically increased p53 levels, and induced conformational change of Bax and apoptosis in wild-type p53 cells but not in cells with mutant p53. The synergistic apoptotic effect was maintained in samples with low Atm that were fludarabine resistant. Results suggest that the nongenotoxic activation of p53 by targeting the Mdm2-p53 interaction provides a novel therapeutic strategy for CLL."
1916	"BACKGROUND: External beam radiotherapy and beta-radioimmunotherapy (RIT) are effective treatments for lymphoid malignancies. The development of RIT with alpha-emitters is attractive, owing to the high (LET) nature and short path length of alpha particles allowing for higher tumor cell kill and lower toxicity  to healthy tissues. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the response of B-Cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells in vitro after treatment with chemotherapy (cisplatin, fludarabine, doxorubicin, or vincristine) or other pharmaceuticals (colchicine, simvastatin, or cyclosporin A) in combination with (60)Co-gamma or (213)Bi-alpha-irradiation. METHODS: (213)Bi was eluted from a (225)Ac generator. Apoptosis was scored by flow cytometric analysis of the cells stained with Annexin-V and 7 amino actinomycin D. Metabolic activity was assessed by a MTT assay. RESULTS: The response induced by alpha- irradiation is systematically higher than the response induced by gamma-irradiation. The combination of drug treatment with alpha-irradiation induced a systematic, higher response, compared to treatment with drugs alone, even for the highest concentrations used. For all the drugs used in this study, synergism or additivity was demonstrated for the combination  of drugs and radiotherapy with a stronger effect for alpha-particles. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this in vitro study highlight a potential benefit of  alpha-irradiation in combination with the drugs considered in this study."
1917	"Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is an aggressive neuroendocrine tumor of the skin for which causative factors remain largely unknown. The site-specific risks of multiple primary cancers associated with MCC, which may provide insight into etiologic influences, have not been quantified in large population-based studies. We estimated the long-term risk of subsequent primary tumors after a first primary MCC (1,306 patients) and the risk of second primary MCC following other first primary cancers (2,048,739 patients) within 11 population-based cancer registries which report to the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program (1986-2002). Patients with first primary MCC were at significantly increased risk of developing a subsequent cancer [standardized incidence ratio (SIR), 1.22; 95% confidence intervals (95% CI), 1.01-1.45; observed (O = 122)], with significant excesses restricted to the first year after diagnosis (SIR, 1.71; 95% CI, 1.21-2.33; O = 39). Significantly elevated site-specific risks were observed for cancers of salivary gland (SIR, 11.55; 95% CI, 2.32-33.76; O = 3), biliary sites other than liver and gallbladder (SIR, 7.24; 95% CI, 1.46-21.16; O = 3), and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SIR, 2.56; 95%  CI, 1.23-4.71; O = 10). Nonsignificantly increased risks of 2-fold or higher were seen for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and cancers of the small intestine and brain. A significantly increased 1.36-fold risk (95% CI, 1.19-1.55; O = 221) of MCC as a second primary malignancy was observed among patients with all other first primary cancers taken together. In particular, significant 3- to 7-fold excesses of MCC followed multiple myeloma (SIR, 3.70; 95% CI, 1.01-9.47; O = 4),  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SIR, 6.89; 95% CI, 3.77-11.57; O = 14), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SIR, 3.37; 95% CI, 1.93-5.47; O = 16), and malignant melanoma (SIR, 3.05; 95% CI, 1.74-4.95; O = 16). Although enhanced medical surveillance may play a role, increased reciprocal risks suggest that MCC may share etiologic influences with other malignancies. Heightened awareness of the associations of lymphohematopoietic malignancies with MCC may facilitate early clinical recognition."
1918	"c-Abl is important for normal B-cell development, but little is known about the function of this nonreceptor tyrosine kinase in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine the clinical, therapeutic, and pathogenetic importance of c-Abl in this disease. We show that the malignant cells of CLL predominantly express the type 1b splice variant of c-Abl and that the expression of c-Abl protein is higher in CLL cells than in normal peripheral blood B cells. Moreover, we show that the levels of c-Abl protein expression correlate positively with tumor burden and disease stage, and  negatively with IgV(H) mutation. We also show that STI-571, an inhibitor of c-Abl kinase activity, induces apoptosis of CLL cells with high c-Abl expression levels through a mechanism involving inhibition of nuclear factor kappaB. We conclude that overexpression of c-Abl is likely to play a pathogenetic role in CLL and that STI-571 may be of potential use in the treatment of this disease."
1919	"The prognostic impact of the presence of a familial trait was analyzed in 1449 patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A family history of hematologic  malignancy (HM) was identified in 181 cases (12.5%) and recorded more frequently  among female than male patients (HM: p < 0.05; CLL: p < 0.05). The relative was affected by CLL in 89 cases (6%). Familial and sporadic cases showed non-statistically different proportions of advanced stages (10.8 vs 7.1%) and patients requiring therapy (55 vs 60%) and a similar survival probability at 10 years (67 vs 66%). These data suggest that in CLL the presence of a familial trait does not imply an adverse prognosis."
1920	"Parvovirus B19 induced pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) has been previously reported  in a variety of settings. We present two cases, an adult patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and a child with neurofibromatosis type-1 (NF-1), where the abrupt appearance of severe anemia raised ominous clinical suspicions.  Evidence of recent parvovirus B19 infection in association with the selective erythroid precursor deficiency in marrow helped exclude other etiologies. We emphasize the importance of bearing this infectious agent in mind, even when there are associated disorders (such as CLL) that may independently cause PRCA. An association of NF-1 with acute PRCA has not been described in indexed English  literature in the past."
1921	"Our objective was to evaluate the accuracy of PET/CT for the diagnosis of Richter's transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to diffuse large cell lymphoma.METHODS: A retrospective study was performed of 37 patients with CLL who underwent 18F-FDG PET/CT at our institution between March 2003 and July 2005. All PET/CT scans were reviewed in consensus by 2 diagnostic radiologists. Sites of abnormal 18F-FDG uptake with a maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) of greater than 5 were considered highly suggestive of Richter's transformation. The PET/CT findings were correlated with histologic findings from bone marrow or lymph node biopsy performed within 6 wk of PET/CT and with clinical follow-up. RESULTS: The 37 patients (26 men and 11 women; mean age, 61 y, range, 40-82 y) underwent 57 PET/CT scans. In 10 (91%) of 11 patients with Richter's transformation, PET/CT detected sites of abnormal 18F-FDG uptake having an SUVmax of greater than 5. Richter's transformation was missed in 1 patient who had only  low-grade 18F-FDG uptake (SUVmax < 5). Nine patients had false-positive PET/CT findings; in 3 of these patients, alternative malignancies were diagnosed (Hodgkin's disease; metastatic neuroendocrine carcinoma; non-small cell lung cancer). In all remaining patients, PET/CT correctly excluded Richter's transformation. For the specific diagnosis of Richter's transformation of CLL to  diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, PET/CT had overall sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of 91%, 80%, and 53% and 97%, respectively. CONCLUSION: PET/CT can detect Richter's transformation of CLL to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma with a high sensitivity and a high negative predictive value."
1922	"PURPOSE: We assessed the safety and efficacy of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin instillations in steroid treated and immunocompromised patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 697 patients treated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin instillations at our institution from 1991  to 2004. In 24 patients (3.5%) an underlying comorbidity directly affecting the immune system was diagnosed before bacillus Calmette-Guerin administration or steroids were administered at least 6 weeks before and at the time of bacillus Calmette-Guerin instillations. The immunosuppressive effect of steroids was assessed by the percent of lymphocytes. End points were the bacillus Calmette-Guerin response at 6 months, defined as normal cystoscopy, cytology and  biopsy when available, and treatment related toxicity. RESULTS: Four patients (17%) had active lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia  during bacillus Calmette-Guerin administration and 21 (88%) had a concurrent condition for which oral steroids (11), inhaled steroids (14) or oral and inhaled steroids (4) were administered. Patients treated with oral steroids had a lower percent of lymphocytes than patients treated with inhaled steroids and 15 age matched patients with high risk superficial bladder cancer and no steroid treatment (12.3% vs 17.5% and 18.6%, respectively). The overall bacillus Calmette-Guerin response rate at 6 months was 58%. Ten of the 24 patients had disease recurrence and 3 had disease progression at a median followup of 63.5 months (IQR 19.5, 89). One patient treated with oral steroids had self-limited febrile disease and worsening of myalgia 48 hours after his third bacillus Calmette-Guerin cycle. No other systemic adverse event following bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy was recorded and all patients completed scheduled treatments. CONCLUSIONS: Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin is a viable therapeutic option in patients with high risk superficial bladder cancer and concomitant lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia, treatment with low dose oral steroids or treatment  with inhaled steroids. The bacillus Calmette-Guerin response rate at 6 months and the side effects profile associated with bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy in these patients were comparable to those in patients with no evidence of immunosuppression. Further studies are warranted to assess the safety and efficacy of bacillus Calmette-Guerin instillations in critically immunocompromised patients."
1925	"Observational studies have consistently reported a reduced incidence and superior survival for female patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). These results were corroborated by different national cancer database reports and confirmed in recent prospective trials. Whether improved survival for women is attributable to increased comorbidities in men, better response and/or tolerance  of therapy in women or an intrinsic difference in the molecular biology of the disease (or a combination thereof) is unknown. It is through prospective trials that evaluate known molecular, genetic and clinical prognostic predictors that one will better understand these differences and determine whether treatment should be tailored to biological clinical profiles or more to sex."
1928	"Traditionally, the goal of therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been palliative, with first-line therapy using alkylating agents and/or involved field radiotherapy (depending on the stage of disease and sites of involvement) because of the older age of affected patients and the low rate of complete remissions (CRs) with no improvement in overall survival despite treatment. With increasing  knowledge about the biology, molecular genetics, and prognostic factors of the disease, the philosophy of care for patients with CLL has evolved from palliation to aiming for a potential cure, especially in younger patients. Furthermore, multiple treatment options have emerged, including purine analogues, monoclonal antibodies, and potentially stem cell transplantation. These have been associated with higher frequencies of CRs and longer durations of responses compared to conventional chemotherapy. In addition, a subset of patients treated with chemoimmunotherapy can achieve durable CRs and molecular remissions. This may translate into improved disease-free survival and potentially a "cure." Because of the heterogeneous nature of CLL, new prognostic markers are currently being incorporated into clinical trials to determine their role in routine clinical practice. This review summarizes current therapeutic regimens that are being evaluated in patients with CLL and management of disease-related complications."
1929	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a clonal overgrowth of CD5(+) B lymphocytes. In this disease, the B cell antigen receptor (BCR) is intimately linked to disease severity, because patients with BCRs, comprised of unmutated V(H) genes, follow a much more aggressive course. This and related observations suggest that B-CLL derives from a B cell subset comprised of restricted BCR structural diversity and that antigen-selection and drive are major factors promoting the disease. Nevertheless, the initiating event(s) that lead to the development of B-CLL are still unclear, in part because of the lack of an animal  model that spontaneously evolves the molecular abnormalities that occur in the human disease. Because overexpression of the TCL1 gene in murine B cells leads to a CD5(+) B cell lymphoproliferative disorder with many of the features of human B-CLL, we studied leukemias emerging in these mice to examine the extent to which their BCRs resemble those in B-CLL. Our data indicate that the immunoglobulin heavy and light chain rearrangements in TCL1 mice display minimal levels of somatic mutations and exhibit several molecular features found in the human disease. Like human B-CLL, TCL1 leukemic rearrangements from different mice can be very similar structurally and closely resemble autoantibodies and antibodies reactive with microbial antigens. Antigen-binding analyses confirm that selected  TCL1 clones react with glycerophospholipid, lipoprotein, and polysaccharides that can be autoantigens and be expressed by microbes. This (auto)antigen-driven mouse model reliably captures the BCR characteristics of aggressive, treatment-resistant human B-CLL."
1930	"This study evaluated mortality rates from leukemia and other diseases during the  time period 1944 through 1998 among 17,924 men employed in the synthetic rubber industry. In this group, there were 6237 deaths, which is 14% fewer than the 7242 deaths expected based on general population rates. Numbers of observed versus expected deaths (shown hereafter as observed/expected) were 1608/1741 for all cancers combined, including 71/61 for leukemia, 53/53 for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL*), and 26/27 for multiple myeloma. The higher than expected number of deaths from leukemia (16% increase) was concentrated in workers paid hourly who had started work 20 to 29 years earlier, had worked 10 or more years in the industry, and had worked in subgroups employed in polymerization, coagulation, maintenance  labor, and laboratory operations. The overall higher leukemia mortality rate, as  well as the higher rate in the subgroup of hourly workers who had 20 or more years since hire and 10 or more years worked, was not limited to a particular form of leukemia. Cumulative exposure to 1,3-butadiene (BD) was associated positively with all leukemias, with chronic myelogenous leukemia and, to a lesser extent, with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Exposure to styrene or to dimethyldithiocarbamate (DMDTC) also was associated positively with leukemia. Exposures to these two agents were correlated with exposure to BD; data were limited on the independent effects of each of the three chemicals on leukemia. After controlling for the effects of BD, we found no consistent exposure-response relation between either styrene or DMDTC and all leukemias, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or CLL. However, a positive association between any exposure to DMDTC and leukemia persisted. The data from this study indicate that employment in the  synthetic rubber industry is related causally to leukemia. Uncertainty remains about the specific agent or agents responsible for the association. The carcinogenic mechanisms through which BD, styrene, or DMDTC could cause leukemia  in humans have not been established, and epidemiologic support for a leukemogenic role is limited for these agents. Styrene and DMDTC were associated positively with NHL. External support for this relation has not been reported from other epidemiologic studies. The study did not find any clear relation between exposure to BD, styrene, or DMDTC and multiple myeloma. Some subgroups of subjects had more than the expected number deaths from colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, and other diseases. These increases did not appear to be related to occupational exposure in the industry."
1931	"Since 1990, we have performed splenic autotransplantation in more than 100 patients to treat splenic trauma, portal hypertension, myeloid metaplasia due to  myelofibrosis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and Gaucher disease. The aim of this present study was to present splenic autotransplantation performed by laparoscopic means. A 33-year-old woman with severe splenic pain due to ischemia  caused by multiple focal thromboses of splenic arterial branches was successfully treated by laparoscopic splenectomy and splenic tissue autotransplantation. The spleen was removed and cut in 20 fragments that were sutured to the greater omentum. This procedure was safely conducted with minor bleeding and no technical difficulties or complications. The postoperative follow-up of 12 months has been  uneventful; the patient's pain disappeared on the first postoperative day. Hematologic, immunologic, tomographic, and scintigraphic examinations confirmed the functions of the splenic autotransplants. It is feasible and safe to perform  splenic autotransplants by laparoscopic means."
1933	"We conducted a large-scale association study to identify low-penetrance susceptibility alleles for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), analyzing 992 patients and 2707 healthy controls. To increase the likelihood of identifying disease-causing alleles we genotyped 1467 coding nonsynonymous single nucleotide  polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in 865 candidate cancer genes, biasing nsSNP selection toward those predicted to be deleterious. Preeminent associations were identified in SNPs mapping to genes pivotal in the DNA damage-response and cell-cycle pathways, including ATM F858L (odds ratio [OR] = 2.28, P < .0001) and P1054R (OR  = 1.68, P = .0006), CHEK2 I157T (OR = 14.83, P = .0008), BRCA2 N372H (OR = 1.45,  P = .0032), and BUB1B Q349R (OR = 1.42, P = .0038). Our findings implicate variants in the ATM-BRCA2-CHEK2 DNA damage-response axis with risk of CLL."
1934	"In this prospective randomized trial, we compared the efficacy and toxicity of cladribine (2-CdA) alone to 2-CdA combined with cyclophosphamide (CC) or cyclophosphamide and mitoxantrone (CMC) in untreated progressive chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Study end points were complete response (CR), overall response, minimal residual disease (MRD), progression-free survival, overall survival, and toxicity. From January 1, 1998 to December 31, 2003, 508 patients from 15 hematology departments were randomized. Compared with 2-CdA, CMC induced  higher CR rate (36% vs 21%, P = .004), and a trend for higher CR rate with CC was observed (29% vs 21%, P = .08). Furthermore, the percentage of patients who were  in CR and were MRD negative was higher in CMC compared with 2-CdA (23% vs 14%, P  = .042). There were no differences in overall response, progression-free survival, and overall survival among treatment groups. Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred more frequently in CC (32%) and CMC (38%) than in 2-CdA (20%) (P = .01 and P = .004, respectively). Infections were more frequent in CMC compared with 2-CdA (40% vs 27%, P = .02). In conclusion, CMC used in first-line treatment of CLL results in a higher CR rate and suppresses MRD more efficiently than 2-CdA monotherapy, although associates with increased toxicity. No important differences in efficacy and toxicity were found between CC and 2-CdA regimens."
1935	"In a cohort of 130 unselected chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients, 73 cases had normal karyotypes, 57 cases had abnormal karyotypes, and 22/57 cases carried more than one abnormality. Trisomy 12 (+12) was the most common abnormality (26/130 cases; 20%), and 17/26 cases had isolated +12. Del(13q)/t13q/-13 was detected in 19/130 cases (14.6%), and 5/19 cases had isolated del(13)(q12q14). Deletion (11)(q23) and del(17p)/-17 were detected in 5/130 cases, respectively. CD38 expression was significantly more frequent in the +12/11q/17p versus the normal/del(13q) subgroups. A significant association was detected between +12 and FMC7 positivity. IGHV-unmutated cases were significantly more frequent in the +12/11q/17p subgroups. Patients with normal karyotype/del(13q) had a longer median time to progression versus the patients in the +12/11q/17p subgroups. According to multivariate analysis, only IGHV mutation status remained a statistically significant variable for progression-free survival (PFS). Furthermore, IGHV mutation status and clinical stage at diagnosis were the only significant prognostic factors for overall survival. Among Binet-A  patients, significant parameters for shorter PFS were +12 or 11q/17p aberrations, CD38 expression, and IGHV unmutated status. In multivariate analysis, only CD38 expression and IGHV-unmutated status retained statistical significance for PFS. In conclusion, trisomy 12 in CLL is characterized by considerable heterogeneity and seems to be associated with disease progression."
1936	"Despite very similar gene expression profiles, the clinical course of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is heterogeneous. Immunoglobulin VH (IgVH) mutational status and expression of B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling mediators have been associated with disease progression. However, the consequences of BCR engagement on cell survival and evolution of the disease remain unclear. We show  here that B-CLL cell survival is dependent on the threshold of BCR stimulation induced by immobilized antibody, in contrast to soluble anti-mu F(ab)'2 antibody, which leads to apoptosis. Measurement of metabolic activity and apoptotic response discriminated two subgroups. "Nonresponders" showed low metabolic activity and unmodified apoptotic response upon BCR stimulation. In contrast, "responders" exhibited increased metabolic activity and inhibition of spontaneous apoptosis. This survival advantage was associated to a BCR-dependent activation profile leading to induction of cyclin D2/cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (cdk4) expression and G1 cell cycle progression. The ability to respond to BCR ligation  correlated with an unfavorable clinical course and allowed to define an additional group of patients among IgVH-mutated cases exhibiting a risk of progression. Remarkably, we show that Zap70 expression was neither mandatory nor  sufficient to generate downstream survival signals and cyclin D2/cdk4 up-regulation. In conclusion, BCR engagement has a significant effect on B-CLL cell survival, activation, and G1 progression. Furthermore, our results provide new insights in the physiopathology of progressive IgVH-mutated cases."
1938	"BACKGROUND: Expression of T cell specific zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) by  B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells, as investigated by flow cytometry, has both prognostic relevance and predictive power as surrogate for immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgV(H)) mutations, although a standardization of the cytometric protocol is still lacking. METHODS: Flow cytometric analyses for ZAP-70 were performed in peripheral blood samples from 145 B-CLL (124 with IgV(H) mutations) by a standard three-color protocol. Identification of ZAP-70(+) cell population was based on an external negative control, i.e., the isotypic control (ISO method) or an internal positive control, i.e., the population of residual normal T/NK cells (TNK method). A comparison between these two approaches was performed. RESULTS: While 86/145 cases were concordant as for ZAP-70 expression according to the two methods (ISO(+)TNK(+) or ISO(-)TNK(-)), 59/145 cases had discordant ZAP-70 expression, mainly (56/59) showing a ISO(+)TNK(-) profile. These latter cases express higher levels of ZAP-70 in their normal T cell component. Moreover, discordant ISO(+)TNK(-) cases had a IgV(H) gene mutation profile similar to that  of concordantly positive cases and different from ZAP-70 concordantly negative B-CLL. CONCLUSION: Analysis of ZAP-70 expression by B-CLL cells by using the ISO method  allows to overcome the variability in the expression of ZAP-70 by residual T cells and yields a better correlation with IgV(H) gene mutations. A receiver operating characteristic analysis suggests to employ a higher cut-off than the commonly used 20%. A parallel evaluation of the prognostic value of ZAP-70 expression, as determined according to the ISO and TNK methods, is still needed."
1939	"BACKGROUND: The disease of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been shown to exhibit varying clinical outcomes based on reported laboratory parameters. One of these parameters involves the measurement of the protein levels of zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) in CLL cells. A standardized assay has not yet reached consensus in the clinical cytometry community. METHODS: We developed a system using the 8-peak Rainbow beads as our fluorescence calibrator along with a fixed cell control. Using a panel of CD19-PE, CD5-FITC, and ZAP-70-Alexa 647, we stained normal whole blood, and blood and bone marrow from patients with CLL to determine the level of ZAP-70 expression in T-cell, B-cell, and CLL-cell populations. ZAP-70 expression was reported in molecules equivalent fluorescence (MEFL) based on the calibration of the flow cytometer with the 8-peak Rainbow beads. RESULTS: Daily assay performance as well as operating MEFL defined ranges for ZAP-70 detection in CLL were developed. A rank-order, nonparametric approach to reference ranges was used to assign a cutoff for "negative" as well as ranges for "intermediate" and "positive" staining using T and B cells from a pool of 50 normal subjects, and CLL cells from 395 patients. The assay was validated in a multi-institutional study and has demonstrated correlation with published techniques. Since its initial development, the assay has been implemented at two  additional laboratory sites and has been shown to produce reproducible, correlated data at all sites. CONCLUSIONS: Strict adherence to standardization can yield an assay that is predictable, reliable, and reproducible as well as capable of multisite implementation. The Rainbow beads provide a common platform for system calibration. The fixed cell culture controls provide a common target to test antibody. The final level of control tests the sensitivity of ZAP-70 detection in a normal peripheral blood sample stained along with the submitted CLL patients. The acceptance/rejection of test results must meet all three levels of control before patient results are reported."
1940	"Lack of immunoglobulin heavy chain genes (IgV(H)) mutation in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is associated with rapid disease progression and shorter survival. The zeta-chain (T-cell receptor) associated protein kinase  70 kDa (ZAP-70) has been reported to be a surrogate marker for IgV(H) mutation status, and its expression in leukemic cells correlates with unmutated IgV(H). However, ZAP-70 detection by flow cytometry varies significantly dependant on the antibodies used, the method of performing the assay, and the condition of the cells in the specimen. The clinical value of ZAP-70 testing when samples are shipped under poorly controlled conditions is not known. Furthermore, testing in  a research environment may differ from testing in a routine clinical laboratory.  We validated an assay for ZAP-70 by comparing results with clinical outcome and the mutation status of the IgV(H). Using stored samples, we show significant correlation between ZAP-70 expression and clinical outcome as well as IgV(H) mutation at a cut-off point of 15%. While positive samples (>15% positivity) remain positive when kept in the laboratory environment for 48 h after initial testing, results obtained from samples from CLL patients tested after shipping at room temperature for routine testing showed no correlation with IgV(H) mutation status when 15% cut-off was used. In these samples, cut-point of 10% correlated with the IgV(H) mutation (P = 0.0001). This data suggests that although ZAP-70 positivity correlates with IgV(H) mutation status and survival, variations in sample handling and preparation may influence results. We show that IgV(H) mutation results, unlike ZAP-70 remain correlated with CD38 expression and beta-2 microglobulin in shipped samples, and ZAP-70 testing should not be used as the sole criterion for stratifying patients for therapy."
1942	"BACKGROUND: ZAP-70 has been proposed as a surrogate marker for immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region (IgV(H)) mutation status, which is known as a prognostic marker in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The flow cytometric analysis of ZAP-70 suffers from difficulties in standardization and interpretation. We applied the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) statistical test to make analysis more straightforward. METHODS: We examined ZAP-70 expression by flow cytometry in 53 patients with CLL. Analysis was performed as initially described by Crespo et al. (New England J Med 2003; 348:1764-1775) and alternatively by application of the KS statistical test  comparing T cells with B cells. Receiver-operating-characteristics (ROC)-curve analyses were performed to determine the optimal cut-off values for ZAP-70 measured by the two approaches. ZAP-70 protein expression was compared with ZAP-70 mRNA expression measured by a quantitative PCR (qPCR) and with the IgV(H)  mutation status. RESULTS: Both flow cytometric analyses correlated well with the molecular technique and proved to be of equal value in predicting the IgV(H) mutation status. Applying the KS test is reproducible, simple, straightforward, and overcomes a number of difficulties encountered in the Crespo-method. CONCLUSIONS: The KS statistical test is an essential part of the software delivered with modern routine analytical flow cytometers and is well suited for analysis of ZAP-70 expression in CLL."
1943	"BACKGROUND: ZAP-70 protein expression has been proposed as a marker for immunoglobulin heavy chain mutational status, which some studies have correlated  with disease course in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Studies published to date measuring levels of expression of ZAP-70 intracellular protein  using flow cytometry have demonstrated poor performance, as defined by the difference in signal in known positive and negative lymphocyte populations. METHODS: A recently published method (Chow S, Hedley DW, Grom P, Magari R, Jacobberger JW, Shankey TV, Cytometry A 2005;67:4-17) to measure intracellular phospho-epitopes was optimized using a design of experiments (DOE) approach to provide the best separation of ZAP-70 expression in positive T- or NK-cells as compared to negative B-cells in peripheral blood samples. A number of commercially available anti-ZAP-70 antibody-conjugates were screened using this methodology, and the antibody-conjugate showing the best performance was chosen to develop a four-color, five antibody assays to measure ZAP-70 levels in whole blood specimens. RESULTS: Using the optimized fixation and permeabilization method, improvement in assay performance (signal-to-noise, S/N) was seen in most of the antibodies tested. The custom SBZAP conjugate gave the best S/N when used in conjunction with this optimized fixation /permeabilization method. In conjunction with carefully standardized instrument set-up protocols, we obtained both intra- and interlaboratory reproducibility in the analysis of ZAP-70 expression in whole blood samples from normal and CLL patients. CONCLUSIONS: The development of a sensitive, specific and highly reproducible ZAP-70 assay represents only the first essential step for any clinical assay. The universal implementation of a validated data analysis method and the establishment of methodology-based cutoff points for clinical outcomes must next  be established before ZAP-70 protein analysis can be routinely implemented in the clinical laboratory."
1944	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disease with an extremely heterogeneous prognosis. Because of this and because of the lack of a truly effective therapy,  treatment of CLL must be adapted to the individual risk of each patient. Over the last quarter of century, prognosis of patients with CLL has been based on clinical features. In the last few years a number of biological prognostic parameters have been identified. Among them, the expression of ZAP-70 in neoplastic B lymphocytes is increasingly being recognized as of paramount importance to predict outcome. Patients with a low percentage (<20%) of ZAP-70 positive neoplastic B lymphocytes have a much better prognosis that those with a  higher proportion (>20%) of ZAP-70 positive neoplastic B lymphocytes."
1945	"(c) 2006 International Society for Analytical Cytology."
1946	"BACKGROUND: : The mutational status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia correlates with prognosis. Patients with mutated IgVH genes fare better than those with unmutated genes. Gene expression profiling studies identified the tyrosine kinase ZAP-70 to be expressed in unmutated CLL samples. Flow cytometric examination of ZAP-70 expression in tumor cells has been proposed to be a convenient surrogate marker for IgVH mutational status. However, a few studies have shown a small number of discordant results between ZAP-70 positivity, IgVH mutational status, and clinical outcome. There have been no reported studies comparing bone marrow samples with peripheral blood for ZAP-70 expression in CLL patients. METHODS: : We searched our flow cytometry files from October 2004 through April 2006 and identified CLL in 311 bone marrow and peripheral blood specimens from 256 patients. We defined ZAP-70 positivity as greater than 30% of the CD19(+) B-cells above the isotype control value that coexpress ZAP-70. Statistical analyses were performed using the Fisher exact test and student t-test. RESULTS: : A significantly greater number of bone marrow specimens were positive  for ZAP-70 when compared with the number of peripheral blood specimens. Of all the ZAP-70 negative specimens, CLL cells from bone marrow had a greater mean percentage of ZAP-70 positive cells when compared with the CLL cells from peripheral blood. Finally, six patients were identified who were ZAP-70 positive  in the bone marrow but ZAP-70 negative in the peripheral blood. CONCLUSIONS: : These results may be due to either an increase in the false positive rate in bone marrow specimens or to an intrinsic feature of CLL cells in the compartment that is biologically distinct from peripheral tumor cells. As prognosis and treatment decisions may be based on ZAP-70 results from either specimen type, it is prudent to further examine this observation. (c) 2006 International Society for Analytical Cytology."
1947	"BACKGROUND: Zeta-chain associated protein of 70kDa (ZAP-70) is the most promising surrogate marker for the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgV(H)) mutation status in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Crespo et al. proposed the detection of ZAP-70 by flow cytometry. Recently several novel monoclonal antibodies appeared on market. METHODS: We compared different staining methods utilizing monoclonal antibodies (moAb) against ZAP-70: anti-ZAP-70 PE, clone 1E7.2, anti-ZAP-70 PE, clone 17A/P-ZAP70 directly stained with flourochrome as well as anti-ZAP-70 antibody, clone 2F3.2 stained with Zenontrade mark Alexa Fluor(R) 488 Labeling Kit. Additionally different reagents for permeabilization such as IntraPrep, FIX & PERM, Perm/Wash and 70% ethanol/paraformaldehyde were used to find the most clinically relevant and easy assay to determine ZAP-70 expression in B-CLL. Moreover we compared results of ZAP-70 expression assessed by whole blood protocol with those obtained using-peripheral mononuclear cells isolated from whole blood. RESULTS: Anti-ZAP-70 moAb clone 17A/P-ZAP70 gave elevated results for all B-CLL patients as well as healthy controls. Staining with anti-ZAP-70 moAb clone 1E7.2  and anti-ZAP-70 moAb clone 2F3.2 was effective in distinguishing negative and positive cells for ZAP-70 protein expression. Not statistically significant discrepancies of ZAP-70 expression were noticed between different fixation and permeabilization methods. CONCLUSION: Basing on results obtained during this study we can recommend use of  anti-ZAP-70 PE, clone 1E7.2 moAb utilizing whole blood protocol with commercial kits for permeabilization as an easy method that brings compatible results to the original method proposed by Crespo et al."
1948	"Zap-70, a crucial molecule for the selective activation of T cells, through its interaction with the zeta chain of the TCR/CD3 complex, is a tyrosine kinase. This well studied molecule has gained a renewed interest upon the demonstration of its transduction and expression in B cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Here the major characteristics of this cytosolic protein are reviewed, as well as its expression in various cell types and some indications about its detection."
1949	"BACKGROUND: Recent studies have identified ZAP-70 expression status as an excellent prognostic parameter in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). ZAP-70 expression can be determined by direct antibody staining followed by flow cytometric analysis. However, there are currently several different gating strategies for analysis. We compared those strategies for ZAP-70 expression analysis. METHODS: One hundred and one patients with B-CLL were analyzed employing a directly labeled alexa-fluor-488-ZAP-70-antibody. In 27 cases, we additionally measured and analyzed ZAP-70 expression, together with healthy controls as described previously. RESULTS: Applying either T-/NK-cell isotype or healthy control analysis strategies on patient samples that were processed in parallel revealed discrepant results in 48% (12/25) of all cases. Taken together with the 74 B-CLL patients, who were analyzed with regard to average reference values, disconcordant results  were obtained in 58% of the samples. We demonstrate that high variances in ZAP-70 T-/NK-cell staining within B-CLL patients, paired with a close proximity of ZAP-70 B-cell values to the suggested cut-off levels, may lead to interpretation  difficulties of ZAP-70 status. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that different gating strategies for determining flow cytometric ZAP-70 expression status produce highly discordant results. Further standardization is required before ZAP-70 can be used as a reliable prognostic parameter in immunophenotyping of B-CLL."
1950	"BACKGROUND: Zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) expression has been associated with  a less favorable prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The role of ZAP-70 in immature B-cells is not well understood. Immature or precursor B lymphocytes (hematogones) often occur in clinical samples and coexpress CD10, CD38, and CD19 lacking surface immunoglobulin expression. The present study was carried out in an attempt to further elucidate the role of ZAP-70 in the spectrum of B-cells seen in clinical specimens. METHODS: ZAP-70 expression was evaluated on 25 patient samples that expressed greater than 2% of CD10(+)/CD38(bright)/CD19(+) coexpression during routine evaluation. In our sample set, the hematogone expression ranged from 2 to 18% of  total leukocytes and occurred in a variety of conditions, including CLL, NHL, AML, MDS, Hodgkins Disease, and Multiple Myeloma. The method of ZAP-70 detection  was that routinely applied to our clinical testing of CLL samples supplemented with the determination of ZAP-70 levels in the CD38(bright)/CD19(+) coexpressing  cells. RESULTS: In all cases ZAP-70 was not expressed on the CD5 negative, CD38/CD19 coexpressing precusor B cells. In all cases hematogones were found to not express significant levels of ZAP-70. CONCLUSION: The presence of hematogones in clinical samples should be recognized  so as to not adversely influence prognostic studies of ZAP-70 or CD38 in CLL."
1951	"BACKGROUND: ZAP-70 has emerged as a potential pivotal prognostic marker for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), which could replace immunoglobulin heavy chain mutation status. Although several flow cytometry assays have been described for assessing ZAP-70 in CLL, certain technical and scientific issues remain unsolved, which have prevented results of this crucial test from being reported, even in the best routine flow cytometry laboratories. In this report, we aimed to solve some of these issues by providing a computerized quantitative flow cytometric assay for ZAP-70 within the entire CLL  population, which would be easy to perform and enable standardization between laboratories. METHODS: Intracellular ZAP-70 levels in CLL and normal B cells were assessed by molecules of equivalent soluble fluorochrome (MESF), employing Quantum FITC MESF  calibration beads to establish a standard curve relating channel value to fluorescence intensity in MESF units and the QuickCal v. 2.2 program (www.bangslabs.com) and clinical relevance of the data was determined. RESULTS: The average ZAP-70 expression value in the CD19(+)/CD5(+) cells from 35  CLL patients was 103,701 MESF when compared with 12,621 MESF in B cells from 20 normal blood samples. "Low" and "high" ZAP-70 CLL subgroups were defined. Patients with "high ZAP-70 MESF" CLL had a shorter time to disease progression (P = 0.0005) and a more advanced clinical stage (P = 0.0018) when compared with patients in the "low ZAP-70 MESF" CLL subgroup. CONCLUSIONS: This quantitative analysis method can be employed to obtain a more specific and highly accurate assessment of ZAP-70 levels in CLL cells. The method can easily be standardized, in any routine flow laboratory, thereby improving reproducibility and reliability of ZAP-70 analysis."
1952	"Since Zap-70 expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells correlates with a lack of somatic mutation of the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgVH) genes, it has been proposed as a surrogate marker for disease prognosis. However, published studies of Zap-70 expression have used different commercial antibodies  and analytic strategies. This study was undertaken to determine if any strategy was broadly applicable in a clinical flow cytometry laboratory. Expression of Zap-70 was determined in 37 CLL patients using four different commercial antibodies. T, NK, and CLL cells were identified by immunophenotyping along with  Zap-70 expression. Data was analyzed in terms of both percent of CLL cells expressing Zap-70 and the ratio of Zap-70 expression in CLL cells compared to that in T + NK cells. Three Zap-70 antibodies showed wide ranges of Zap-70 expression as a percentage of tumor cells, while a fourth gave consistently elevated results. Comparing the percent Zap-70 expression with any two antibodies gave poor correlations (r(2) = 0.45-0.63). Our results indicated that the previous analytical strategies were not reproducible. A ratio metric is proposed, which gave better correlations (r(2) as high as 0.95) and would allow separation  of CLL patients with elevated or decreased Zap-70 expression."
1953	"We report a case of an elderly woman with persistent lymphocytosis in whom flow cytometric immunophenotyping revealed 2 distinct clonal B-cell populations with different light chain restrictions. One clone was CD19+ (dim), CD5+ (bright), CD23+ (moderate), and kappa+; the other clone was CD19+ (moderate), CD5+ (bright), CD23+ (dim), and lambda+. We separated the 2 clones by flow cytometry from peripheral blood lymphocytes for further molecular and cytogenetic analysis. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH)  genes revealed that the clones had bands of slightly different size. The PCR products of the framework 3 (FR3) region were cloned, and sequence analysis confirmed that each population had distinct, clone-specific IgH gene rearrangements. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis revealed trisomy 12 in the lambda-restricted B-cell clone, whereas the k-restricted population had normal FISH patterns. Our results demonstrated that the immunophenotypically different cell populations originated from 2 separate clones."
1954	"PURPOSE: To report a case of corneal copper deposition associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). DESIGN: Case report. METHODS: A 65-year-old woman with a history of CLL was diagnosed with bilateral corneal opacification. Slit-lamp examination revealed dense, central yellow-brown pigmentation of Descemet's membrane in each cornea. The presence of a bilateral pigmented deposition at the level of Descemet's membrane led to a presumptive clinical diagnosis of corneal copper deposition. RESULTS: Serologic investigations revealed a markedly elevated copper (hypercupremia) and IgG levels with a normal ceruloplasmin. Wilson's disease was  excluded as a possible cause based on liver function tests and a liver biopsy. Thus, the patient was diagnosed with corneal copper deposition secondary to hypercupremia associated with CLL. CONCLUSIONS: Corneal copper deposition may be associated with systemic malignancy, most commonly myeloproliferative disorders, including CLL. Recognition of the characteristic clinical features associated with corneal copper deposition allows the clinician to confirm the diagnosis with appropriate  serologic studies."
1955	"The clinical course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is variable. While some patients have indolent disease, others require aggressive treatment within a short time after diagnosis. Differences in the expression of proteins regulating  cell cycle and apoptosis may be responsible for the heterogeneous course of the disease. Recently, protein ZAP 70 [zeta-chain (T-cell receptor) associated protein kinase 70 kDa] has been found to be differentially expressed within two biologic subgroups, characterized by the presence or absence of somatic mutations in specific immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region genes. In the present work, we analyzed highly purified B-CLL cells from 60 patients for ZAP 70 expression and the expression of cyclin E, bcl-2, bax, and mcl-1 as well as the ratios of bcl-2/bax and mcl-1/bax. The results indicate that cyclin E is expressed significantly higher in ZAP 70-positive as in ZAP 70-negative samples.  We did not observe significant differences within the expression of Bcl-2 family  member proteins. We conclude that higher cyclin E expression in samples of ZAP 70-positive patients may reflect a larger proliferating compartment in vivo compared to ZAP 70-negative patients and that cyclin E may add prognostic information in this context for patients with B-CLL."
1956	"The proteasome inhibitors are a new class of antitumor agents. These inhibitors cause the accumulation of many proteins in the cell with the induction of apoptosis including TRAIL death receptors DR4 and DR5, but the role of the TRAIL  apoptotic pathway in proteasome inhibitor cytotoxicity is unknown. Herein, we have demonstrated that the induction of apoptosis by the proteasome inhibitors, MG-132 and PS-341 (bortezomib, Velcade), in primary CLL cells and the Burkitt lymphoma cell line, BJAB, is associated with up-regulation of TRAIL and its death receptors, DR4 and DR5. In addition, FLICE-like inhibitory protein (c-FLIP) protein is decreased. MG-132 treatment increases binding of DR5 to the adaptor protein FADD, and causes caspase-8 activation and cleavage of pro-apoptotic BID.  Moreover, DR4:Fc or blockage of DR4 and DR5 expression using RNA interference, which prevents TRAIL apoptotic signaling, blocks proteasome inhibitor induced apoptosis. MG-132 also increases apoptosis and DR5 expression in normal B-cells.  However, when the proteasome inhibitors are combined with TRAIL or TRAIL receptor activating antibodies the amount of apoptosis is increased in CLL cells but not in normal B cells. Thus, activation of the TRAIL apoptotic pathway contributes to proteasome inhibitor induced apoptosis in CLL cells."
1957	"A population-based case-control study was conducted to evaluate risk of developing chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) associated with personal and/or family history of autoimmune and related diseases. Data were obtained for all (n  = 7764) patients diagnosed with CLL in Sweden and Denmark over a 40-year period and with linkable relatives, 16,658 matched control subjects, and first-degree relatives of patients (n = 17,991) and control subjects (n = 39,388). Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated to quantify risk of CLL in relation to personal/family history of 32 autoimmune and related disorders. The risk of CLL was significantly increased among subjects with a personal history of pernicious anemia (OR = 1.94; 1.18-3.18), mainly in the 0- to 1-year latency period. A significantly decreased  risk of CLL was found among individuals with a personal history of chronic rheumatic heart disease (OR = 0.55; 0.33-0.93), particularly persons with a long  latency (10+ years) between the 2 conditions. We found no association between personal or familial occurrence of other autoimmune or related disorders and CLL. If our results are confirmed, mechanistic studies examining how pernicious anemia might promote increased occurrence of CLL and how chronic rheumatic heart disease protects against CLL, perhaps related to long-term antibiotics use, may provide insights to the as-yet-unknown etiology of CLL."
1958	"BACKGROUND: The optimal management of patients with splenic marginal zone lymphoma/marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL) is controversial. The objective of this retrospective study was to compare the outcomes of patients with SMZL who received treatment with rituximab, rituximab plus chemotherapy, or chemotherapy alone. METHODS: The Leukemia Service database was searched for patients with splenic lymphoma who were registered between May 1995 and October 2004. The indications for treatment were the same as those used for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. RESULTS: SMZL was confirmed in 70 patients. The median age was 64 years. The median number of CD20 molecules per cell was 69 x 10(3). Forty-three patients required systemic therapy; rituximab in 26 patients, chemotherapy plus rituximab  in 6 patients, and chemotherapy alone in 11 patients. Ten additional patients underwent splenectomy, and 17 patients were in the observation group. The overall response rates were 88% with rituximab, 83% with rituximab plus chemotherapy, and 55% with chemotherapy alone; the 3-year survival rates were 95%, 100%, and 55%, respectively. The 3-year failure-free survival (FFS) rates were 86%, 100%, and 45% in the rituximab, rituximab plus chemotherapy, and chemotherapy alone groups, respectively. Rituximab treatments resulted in longer survival and FFS compared with chemotherapy. Rituximab alone resulted in disappearance of splenomegaly in 92% of patients and normalization of absolute lymphocyte counts. In univariate analysis, younger age and rituximab-based therapy were predictive of longer FFS. CONCLUSIONS: Rituximab with or without chemotherapy was found to have major activity in patients with SMZL. These results may be associated with high levels  of cellular CD20 antigen sites. Rituximab should be the treatment of choice, at least in older patients with SMZL who have comorbid diseases."
1959	"Epidemiologic evidence indicates that several markers of exposure to childhood infections are inversely associated with the risk of childhood leukemia and lymphomas. We used the Swedish Family-Cancer Database to assess the effects of number of siblings on the risk of non-Hodgkin's (n = 7,007) and Hodgkin's lymphomas (n = 3,115), leukemias (n = 7,650), and multiple myeloma (n = 1,492) by histopathology. Poisson regression models included terms for age, sex, family history, period, and socioeconomic index. Having four or more siblings compared with none was associated with an excess risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia [ALL; rate ratio (RR), 2.11; P(trend) = 0.001], acute monocytic leukemia (RR, 2.51; P(trend) = 0.002), and multiple myeloma (RR, 1.34; P(trend) = 0.006).  Having three or more older siblings compared with none decreased the risk of acute monocytic leukemia (RR, 0.35; P(trend) = 0.001) and childhood ALL (RR, 0.69; P(trend) = 0.01). The risk of Hodgkin's lymphoma for five or more older siblings compared with none was 0.41 (P(trend) = 0.003). Acute myeloid leukemia,  chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and other lymphoproliferative malignancies were not associated with number of siblings. In conclusion, we found an excess risk of childhood ALL and acute monocytic leukemia in large families. However, for ALL, acute monocytic leukemia, and Hodgkin's lymphoma, younger siblings were strongly  protected compared with older siblings. The remarkable protective effect of number of older siblings on acute monocytic leukemia is a novel finding of potential interest. Possible interpretations of our findings in the context of a  putative infectious etiology are discussed."
1960	"PURPOSE: Based on its mechanistic similarity to fludarabine and cladribine and the success of these analogues for treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we hypothesized that clofarabine would be effective for indolent leukemias. The present study was conducted to determine the efficacy and cellular pharmacology during clinical trials of single-agent clofarabine in CLL. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Previously treated patients with relapsed/refractory CLL were eligible for this study. Clofarabine was infused over 1 hour daily for 5 days. Most patients received 3 or 4 mg/m2/d x 5 days, whereas the other two were  treated with 15 mg/m2/d x 5 days. Clinical outcome and associated pharmacologic end points were assessed. RESULTS: Myelosuppression limited the maximum tolerated dose of clofarabine to 3  mg/m2/d on this schedule. Cellular pharmacokinetic studies showed a median clofarabine triphosphate concentration in CLL lymphocytes of 1.5 micromol/L (range, 0.2-2.3 micromol/L; n = 9). In the majority of cases, >50% of the analogue triphosphate was present 24 hours after infusion, indicating prolonged retention of the triphosphate in CLL cells. Although cytoreduction was observed,  no patients achieved a response. In vitro clofarabine incubation of leukemic lymphocytes from 29 CLL patients showed that clofarabine monophosphate accumulated to a higher concentration compared with the triphosphate. Nonetheless, the triphosphate increased in a dose-dependent fashion and upon successive clofarabine infusions, suggesting benefit from greater doses given at  less frequent intervals. CONCLUSION: Levels of clofarabine triphosphate at higher doses and prolonged maintenance of clofarabine triphosphate in leukemic lymphocytes provide a rationale to treat CLL in a weekly clofarabine schedule."
1961	"We recently reported that activated normal human B lymphocytes express Cox-2. These findings prompted us to evaluate whether human B-CLL cells express Cox-2 and synthesize prostaglandins. In contrast to naive human B cells, B-CLL cells constitutively expressed Cox-2 protein and produced PGE2, PGF2alpha, and TXA2. Elevated Cox-2 expression was seen in a subgroup of B-CLL cells that exhibit poor prognostic factors, including unmutated variable heavy chain status and increased CD38 expression. Furthermore, stimulation of B-CLL cells with CD40 ligand plus TNFalpha increased Cox-2 levels. The role of Cox-2 in promoting B-CLL survival was investigated using nonselective and selective Cox-2 inhibitors. Significant reductions in B-CLL survival occurred following Cox-2 inhibition. These new findings support that constitutive Cox-2 expression in B-CLL cells promotes their survival and possibly their expansion in vivo. It will therefore be important to  evaluate drugs that inhibit Cox-2 as potential therapeutic agents in B-CLL in vivo."
1962	"BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab is an emerging therapy for refractory lymphoproliferative disorders. The associated long-term risks of infection remain poorly defined. METHODS: From July 2001 through December 2003, all patients who received alemtuzumab for the treatment of lymphoproliferative disorders at 1 institution underwent a retrospective evaluation to document infectious complications until death or end of follow-up in October 2004. Alemtuzumab recipients who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation were compared with a concurrent cohort who also underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation but did not receive alemtuzumab. RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients were identified (21 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and 6 with plasma cell disorders). The overall mortality was 37%, with 7 of 10 deaths being related to infection. Significant opportunistic infections occurred in 9 patients (43%) with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, including cytomegalovirus, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, adenovirus, toxoplasmosis, and acanthamaebiasis. Thirty nonopportunistic infections in 22 patients (82%) were also identified. The 3 deaths related to nonopportunistic infections all involved Enterococcus species bacteremia. When compared with a concurrent chronic lymphocytic leukemia cohort that underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, alemtuzumab recipients had an incidence  of cytomegalovirus reactivation of 66.7% (6 of 9 patients), compared with 37% in  the non-alemtuzumab group (10 of 27 patients; P = .15), and an incidence of post-transplant opportunistic infections (excluding herpesviruses) of 44.4% (compared with 29.6% in the non-alemtuzumab group; P = .41). CONCLUSIONS: Despite the use of herpesvirus and Pneumocystis pneumonia prophylaxis, serious infectious complications occur in patients receiving alemtuzumab for lymphoproliferative disorders. Infectious complications are more  varied and diverse in patients receiving alemtuzumab than has been reported in trials to date."
1963	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Indolent lymphoproliferative disorders are incurable with conventional chemotherapy. Exploring the potential of allogeneic transplantation  to eradicate disease has therefore been of interest for some time. This review reports on recent developments in this field to evaluate the current status of stem cell transplantation in the management of these conditions. RECENT FINDINGS: Most recent studies examine the application of reduced intensity regimens in follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Interest is particularly focused on assessing the potency of the allogeneic graft-versus-malignancy effect, whether achieved by T cells infused at the time of transplant, or by the administration of exogenous donor lymphocytes at relapse or progression following transplant. Furthermore, the discovery of molecular/genetic factors that permit identification of patients with poor prognosis chronic lymphocytic leukemia has led to interest in identifying whether the allogeneic effect can overcome the impact of these factors. SUMMARY: Encouraging evidence is accumulating for the efficacy of reduced intensity transplantation in indolent lymphoproliferative disorders. Allogeneic graft-versus-malignancy effects can be demonstrated and durable responses to donor lymphocytes are being reported. More follow-up is required, however, before the curative potential of allogeneic transplantation can be assessed. The appropriate timing of transplant and the choice of regimen remains unclear."
1964	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To review risk stratification strategies used in chronic lymphocytic leukemia at diagnosis to predict aggressiveness of disease and, at time of treatment, to predict duration of response. RECENT FINDINGS: Several new prognostic factors can better assist clinicians in predicting the aggressiveness of chronic lymphocytic leukemia at diagnosis and the likelihood of maintaining a prolonged remission with treatment. This article  reviews older prognostic factors such as beta2-microglobulin and thymidine kinase activity that have been partially validated by recently completed large studies.  New prognostic factors such as interphase cytogenetics, immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene mutational analysis, and relevant secondary surrogate markers of immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene, including methylation of the zeta-associated protein gene, lipoprotein lipase overexpression, telomere length, and telomerase  activity are reviewed. Some prognostic factors (interphase cytogenetics) but not  others (immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene mutational status, zeta-associated protein expression) predict the duration of response to fludarabine-based combination strategies. SUMMARY: Recent advances in risk stratification provide clinicians with tools to  better predict outcome of chronic lymphocytic leukemia at the time of treatment and response to treatment at the time of developing symptomatic disease."
1965	"Nucleotide insertions/duplications or deletions in immunoglobulin heavy chain genes have been found in 24/760 patients (3.15%) with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In 21/24 cases, the inserted/duplicated or lost nucleotides occurred in multiples of 3; therefore, the original reading frame was maintained  and a potentially intact receptor was coded. The pattern and location of insertions/duplications or deletions in CLL and their restriction to mutated IGHV rearranged genes strongly suggests that they resulted from somatic hypermutation. Their incidence in CLL is consistent with previous reports in normal, auto-reactive and neoplastic human B cells, thus seemingly indicating that these  modifications generally arise without any particular disease-specific associations. A striking exception to this rule was identified in CLL IGHV3-21-expressing cases: one amino acid was deleted from the CDR2 region in 16/63 (25.4%) mutated CLL IGHV3-21 sequences (including public database-derived IGHV3-21 CLL cases + the present series) vs. only 2/257 (0.78%) public database-derived mutated non-CLL IGHV3-21 sequences; 15/16 CLL IGHV3-21 sequences carrying this deletion belonged to a subset with unique, shared HCDR3 and light chain CDR3 motifs. This finding further supports the idea of selective antigenic  pressures playing a pathogenetic role in some CLL cases."
1966	"OBJECTIVE: CD229, a cell-surface molecule being involved in cell adhesion, is overexpressed in B-CLL cells. In this study we wanted to explore whether CD229 might function as B-CLL-specific tumor-associated antigen (TAA). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Autologous, CD229-specific HLA-A2-restricted T cells were identified using IFN-gamma-ELISPOT assays and HLA-A2/dimer-peptide staining after 4 weeks of in vitro culture. RESULTS: We were able to expand autologous T cells from 9/11 B-CLL patients using native B-CLL cells as antigen presenting cells (APCs) in 5 cases, whereas for 4 samples an autologous T-cell response could only be evoked by use of CD40L-stimulated B-CLL cells as APCs. The number of CD8+ T cells could be expanded during 4 weeks of in vitro culture with native or CD40L-activated B-CLL  cells while the amount of specific T cells recognizing CD229 peptides bound to HLA-A2 dimers increased on average 12-fold (native CLL) and 13-fold (CD40L-activated CLL), respectively. Using IFN-gamma-ELISPOT assays we could demonstrate that the expanded T cells were able to secrete IFN-gamma upon recognition of the antigen. These T cells not only recognized HLA-A0201-binding CD229-derived peptides presented by T2 cells, but also CD229-overexpressing autologous B-CLL cells in an MHC-I-restricted manner. CONCLUSION: In summary, CD229 was shown to be naturally processed and presented as TAA in primary B-CLL cells, enabling the expansion of autologous tumor-specific T cells."
1971	"We characterized leukemic cells from 20 adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) cases and 7 ATL-derived cell lines in terms of Foxp3 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression, cytokine production, cell surface markers associated with regulatory T-cells (Treg), and in vitro immunoregulatory activity and compared the results with those of cells from 3 T-cell-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia (T-CLL) patients and normal CD4+ T-cells. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that cells from 10 ATL cases, 1 T-CLL case, and 1 ATL cell line had higher Foxp3 mRNA  levels than CD4+ T-cells. In 5 ATL cases, Foxp3 levels were comparable to those of CD4+CD25+ T-cells. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that CTLA-4 expression correlated with Foxp3 mRNA level in ATL cells. The cells of all ATL cases examined produced no interleukin 2 or interferon gamma after iono-mycin and phorbolmyristate acetate stimulation. Cases with low Foxp3 expression (Foxp3-low) tended to express higher levels of transforming growth factor beta mRNA, but this trend was not statistically significant. An in vitro inhibition assay showed that the proliferation of normal CD4+CD25- T-cells stimulated with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody and autologous dendritic cells was significantly suppressed by coculture with Foxp3-high ATL cells. These results indicate that Foxp3 expression is variable in ATL cases and that Foxp3-high ATL cells, which resemble Treg phenotypically as well as functionally, may be involved in immune suppression in  ATL."
1972	"Antigen targeted immunotherapies might represent a novel treatment for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). We screened the mRNA expression of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) from the literature (fibromodulin, survivin, OFA-iLRP, BAGE, G250, MAGE1, PRAME, proteinase, syntaxin, hTERT, WT-1) and TAAs defined previously by serological analysis of cDNA expression libraries from leukemic cells (PINCH, HSJ2, MAZ, MPP11, RHAMM/CD168, NY-Ren60). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 43 B-CLL patients and 20 healthy volunteers (HVs) were examined by conventional and quantitative RT-PCR. mRNA of RHAMM/CD168, fibromodulin, syntaxin and NY-Ren60 was expressed in 55-90%, and mRNA of HSJ2, MAZ and OFAiLRP was expressed in 90-100% of the patients. No expression of WT-1,  hTERT, BAGE, G250, MAGE1 or survivin was observed. Low (2-20%) expression frequencies of MPP11, PINCH, PRAME and proteinase were detected. RHAMM/CD168, fibromodulin, PRAME and MPP11 showed expression in B-CLL patients, but not in HVs. Because of the exquisite tissue expression of RHAMM/CD168 and its high expression frequency in CLL patients, mixed lymphocyte peptide culture (MLPC), enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) and flow cytometry were performed for  antigen specific T-cells. In MLPC, RHAMM specific responses by CD8+HLA-A2/R3tetramer+CCR7-CD45RAhigh effector T-cells were detected. RHAMM/CD168 might be a possible target for future immunotherapies in both ZAP-70(+) and ZAP-70(-) B-CLL patients."
1974	"Antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) is one of the mechanisms of tumor killing during antibody (Ab) immunotherapy, and a role for myeloid cells as effectors has been observed in several models. We are developing immunotherapy approaches based on administration of large numbers of ex vivo interferon-gamma-activated macrophages to cancer patients. With a quantitative assay measuring killing of nonproliferating tumor cells, we evaluated whether, in physiologic conditions, these macrophages synergize with the anti-CD20 Ab rituximab for killing primary B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells.  ADCC reached levels of 70% to 80% at effector to target ratios as low as 1:1. Macrophage recruitment by Ab-opsonized tumor cells did not result in enhanced cytokine secretion, suggesting that the cytokine shower observed in rituximab-treated patients is not caused by macrophage activation, and that cytokines have no role in CLL killing. We observed that uptake of tumor material  by macrophages was not directly correlated to tumor killing. Nonetheless, experiments in the presence of cytochalasin D showed that ADCC occurred mainly by phagocytosis. Tumor killing was largely mediated by Fc gammaRI and inhibited by increasing concentration of serum. Importantly, complement deposition on B-CLL cells did not seem to enhance macrophage ADCC in this model, as complement-depleted and complement-repleted human plasmas exerted comparable inhibition."
1975	"The growth and circulation of B lymphocytes is largely under the control of bone  marrow stromal cells, cytokines and chemokines. The gene responsible for the pivotal B cell growth factor, stromal derived factor-1 (SDF-1), has recently been shown to contain a single nucleotide polymorphism G > A at position 801 which leads to higher SDF-1 secretion. This polymorphism is common in the normal population and has been shown to play a potential role in the development of both HIV and non-HIV related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We therefore undertook a large single-centre study to ascertain its role in the pathogenesis of two other common B-cell malignancies, notably chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL- 197 patients) and multiple myeloma (126 patients). We show that the 801 G > A polymorphism plays no role in the incidence of multiple myeloma or CLL nor the outcome in multiple myeloma. By contrast, it trends towards an inferior cause-specific survival in CLL."
1976	"Fludarabine and alemtuzumab are routinely used for treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). The present study aimed to compare the expression of signaling molecules and cytokine production by T cells of B-CLL patients in long-term unmaintained remission/plateau phase following fludarabine or alemtuzumab treatment with that of indolent/untreated B-CLL patients and healthy  donors. The frequency and intensity of TCR-CD3zeta chain, p56lck, p59fyn, ZAP-70, PI3-kinase and interferon (IFN)-gamma/interleukin (IL)-4 production in CD4 and CD8 T cells was examined by flow cytometry. T-cell function was assessed by stimulation with purified protein derivative (PPD) and phytohemagglutinin (PHA).  Despite a reduction in number, the expression of IFN-gamma/IL-4 in T-cells in patients was significantly higher than in healthy donors. The intensity of most signaling molecules in treated patients was relatively unaffected vs. healthy donors but lower than untreated-indolent patients. However, the total number of T cells which expressed each of the signaling molecules was decreased in patients,  with no difference between fludarabine- and alemtuzumab-treated patients. The T-cell response to PHA but not PPD was reduced in treated patients. The results suggest that, despite some alterations in signaling molecules and a reduction in  T-cell number, overall T-cell functions may be relatively well preserved long-term after treatment with fludarabine and alemtuzumab."
1978	"Proteasome inhibitors are potent inducers of apoptosis in isolated lymphocytes from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, the reversible proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (PS-341; Velcade) did not display substantial antitumor activity in CLL patients. Here, we compared the effects of bortezomib and a new irreversible proteasome inhibitor (NPI-0052) on 20S chymotryptic proteasome activity and apoptosis in isolated CLL cells in vitro. Although their  steady-state (3 hours) IC(50)s as proteasome inhibitors were similar, NPI-0052 exerted its effects more rapidly than bortezomib, and drug washout experiments showed that short exposures to NPI-0052 resulted in sustained (> or =24 hours) 20S proteasome inhibition, whereas 20S activity recovered in cells exposed to even 10-fold higher concentrations of bortezomib. Thus, brief (15 minutes) pulses of NPI-0052 were sufficient to induce substantial apoptosis in CLL cells, whereas longer exposure times (> or =8 hours) were required for commitment to apoptosis in cells exposed to equivalent concentrations of bortezomib. Commitment to apoptosis seemed to be related to caspase-4 activation, in that cells exposed to  bortezomib or NPI-0052 could be saved from death by addition of a selective caspase-4 inhibitor up to 8 hours after drug exposure. Our results show that NPI-0052 is a more effective proapoptotic agent than bortezomib in isolated CLL cells and suggest that the chemical properties of NPI-0052 might also make it an  effective therapeutic agent in CLL patients."
1979	"Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is a unique chronic lymphoproliferative disorder that can mimic or coexist with other clonal hematologic disorders and has been associated with autoimmune disorders. It should be entertained as an alternative  diagnosis in patients with cytopenias being assigned the diagnosis of aplastic anemia, hypoplastic myelodysplastic syndrome, atypical chronic lymphocytic leukemia, B-prolymphocytic leukemia, or idiopathic myelofibrosis. Causative etiology or molecular defects remain unclear, although nonspecific chromosomal and molecular changes have been described. The typical presentation is that of a  middle-aged man with an incidental finding of pancytopenia, splenomegaly, and inaspirable bone marrow. Treatment with a purine analogue, cladribine or pentostatin, results in extremely high, durable, overall, and complete response rates, although resistance and relapses do occur. A variant subtype exists and is frequently associated with a poor response. Because of its simplified dosing schedule, cladribine is commonly used as the initial therapy. Treatment of relapsed HCL is dictated by the duration of the preceding remission. Relapsed disease after a prolonged remission can often be successfully retreated with the  same initial agent. Resistance in typical HCL is treated with the alternate purine analogue. New agents, such as rituximab and BL22, are actively being evaluated and show promising results in both HCL subtypes. This article uses two  patients diagnosed with aplastic anemia and recently seen in consultation at our  institution as a springboard to discuss the biology, pathogenesis, clinical presentation, diagnostic evaluation, and treatment options of HCL."
1983	"BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed against the cell surface antigen CD52 and has demonstrated activity in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and other CD52-positive lymphoproliferative disorders. Because CD52 also is expressed on acute leukemic blasts, the authors investigated the safety and efficacy of alemtuzumab in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). METHODS: Fifteen patients with CD52-positive (> or = 20%), recurrent or refractory acute leukemia (9 patients with AML and 6 patients with ALL) received  alemtuzumab at a dose of 30 mg intravenously given 3 times a week (dose escalation during Week 1) for a total of 4 to 12 weeks. RESULTS: The median age of the patients was 39 years (range, 18-71 years). Patients had received a median of 3 prior therapies (range, 1-5 prior therapies). Two patients (13%) achieved a bone marrow complete response and 1 patient achieved a substantial reduction in bone marrow blasts. No complete remissions were observed. Ten patients developed disease progression while on study. Alemtuzumab was myelosuppressive in nearly all patients. Infusion-related toxicities were common, but usually did not exceed Grade 2 (according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria). Infectious episodes occurred in 13 patients (87%) and included pneumonia (6 patients), bacteremia (11 patients), fungemia (2 patients), and cytomegalovirus reactivation (2 patients). CONCLUSIONS: Single-agent alemtuzumab was found to have limited activity in recurrent or refractory acute leukemia. An evaluation in patients with a better prognosis, in combination with other agents or as part of consolidation therapy,  is warranted."
1984	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by the accumulation  of non-cycling B cells in lymphatic and extralymphatic tissues. Earlier studies had validated that angiogenesis was increased in B-CLL. Increased serum concentrations of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast  growth factor (bFGF) connote a poor prognosis in early-stage B-CLL. Early progression is also related to transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), which  inhibits B-cell proliferation and immunoglobulin production. The authors investigated the expression of CD34, VEGF, bFGF, and TGF-beta and their receptors in different stages of B-CLL by analyzing bone marrow samples from 23 patients (11 with Rai stages 0-II; 12 with stages III or IV). TGF-beta2 was expressed more strongly in stages 0 to II than in stages III or IV (P=0.03). There was no significant difference in the intensity of CD34, TGF-beta1, VEGF, and bFGF and their receptors between stages 0 to II and stages III or IV. Staining showed bFGF expression to be stronger than VEGF expression (P=0.001). Results did not confirm an association between the intensity of angiogenesis and B-CLL stage. The expression of TGF-beta2 was stronger in early-stage disease and may help slow disease progression."
1985	"CONTEXT: Mature B lymphocytes exhibit allelic exclusion in which only a single class of immunoglobulin heavy chain and a single class of light chain, either kappa or lambda, are expressed. There have been several reports indicating that double light-chain gene rearrangements or dual light-chain expression can occur in B-cell malignant neoplasms, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Currently, it is a common notion that demonstration of light-chain restriction in a B-cell population is generally considered proof of monoclonality and indicates malignancy. OBJECTIVE: To increase awareness of the existence of the dual kappa/lambda immunoglobulin light-chain expressing B-cell leukemia/lymphoma, to emphasize the  importance of visual inspection of flow cytometric data, and to present the guidelines for flow cytometric interpretation of dual kappa/lambda coexpressing populations. DATA SOURCES: Through comprehensive literature review, this article discusses the current understandings regarding the dual light-chain expression in B-cell neoplasms, the cellular and molecular mechanisms, and the clinical and diagnostic implications of dual light-chain expression. CONCLUSIONS: Dual kappa/lambda light-chain expressing B-cell leukemia/lymphomas do exist. Recognition of the dual kappa/lambda light-chain expression on B cells  has diagnostic implication in leukemia/lymphoma immunophenotyping."
1986	"We analyzed minimal residual disease (MRD) by consensus polymerase chain reaction (PCR), quantitative PCR (qPCR), and flow cytometry in 40 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who underwent stem cell transplantation; 97.4%, 89%, and 100% of the patients could be studied by consensus PCR, qPCR, and flow cytometry, respectively. Overall, 164 of 248 samples were negative for MRD by consensus PCR. Among those, CLL cells were detected by qPCR and by flow cytometry in 77 (47%) and 39 (23%) of the 164 samples, respectively. All 84 samples positive on PCR had detectable CLL cells by qPCR and flow cytometry. A good correlation was seen between MRD levels by flow cytometry and by qPCR (n = 254; r = 0.826; P < .001). Fifteen of 25 patients receiving autografts suffered a relapse, with increasing levels of MRD being observed before relapse in all of them. MRD detection within the first 6 months after autologous transplantation identified patients with a high relapse risk. In contrast, in allografted patients (n = 15) MRD did not correlate with outcome. In conclusion, quantitative methods to assess MRD (flow cytometry and qPCR) are more accurate than consensus  PCR to predict clinical evolution. These results might be useful to investigate treatments aimed at preventing relapse in patients with CLL who have received an  autograft."
1987	"BACKGROUND: The combination of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FC-R) shows significant in vitro synergism and may improve patient outcome with  little overlapping toxicity. METHODS: Between December 2000 and June 2005, 77 patients completed therapy after a median of 4 cycles of FC-R (fludarabine at a dose of 25 mg/m2 intravenously [i.v.] on Days 1-3, cyclophosphamide at a dose of 250 mg/m2 i.v. on Days 1-3, and rituximab at a dose of 375 mg/m2 on Day 1). The median age of the patients was 59 years, 65% were male; 31% had previously untreated disease; and 44% had chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 29% had follicular lymphoma, and 27% other indolent lymphoid malignancies. In addition to standard disease response criteria, patients underwent evaluation using flow cytometric and/or molecular studies. RESULTS: Objective responses (OR) and complete responses (CR) were observed in 83% and 42%, respectively, of evaluable patients (n=76), respectively. For patients with CLL, the respective OR and CR rates were 100% and 67% as firstline  therapy, and 95% and 14% as salvage therapy. For patients with follicular lymphoma, the respective OR and CR rates were 100% and 86% as firstline therapy,  and 87% and 67% as salvage therapy. Responders who had no detectable disease on flow cytometric and/or molecular studies experienced prolonged remissions with no recurrences reported at a median 25 months of follow-up. Peripheral stem cell collection using stem cell factor plus granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor was  successful in 10 of 13 patients who underwent mobilization (77%). CONCLUSIONS: FC-R is highly active as initial or salvage therapy in patients with CLL or indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Collection of autologous stem cells during  molecular remission is feasible and may facilitate future exploration of high-dose therapy in these patients."
1988	"Loss of tumor protein 53 (TP53) has been associated with aggressive disease and poor response to therapy in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). TP53 is  located at chromosome band 17p13 and its absence can be detected by fluorescence  in situ hybridization (FISH) in the interphase nuclei of 8-10% patients with B-CLL. To study the cytogenetic mechanism for loss of TP53, metaphase and interphase FISH studies were conducted on 16 B-CLL patients to investigate 17p10  to 17p12, a chromosome region known to be rich in low-copy DNA repeats. Loss of TP53 was caused by an isochromosome with breakpoints between 17p10 and 17p11.2 in four patients, an unbalanced translocation involving 17p10 to 17p11.2 in nine patients, and an unbalanced translocation involving 17p11.2 to 17p12 in three patients. These findings indicate that loss of TP53 results from the absence of nearly the entire chromosome 17 p-arm rather than to monosomy 17 or deletions of  TP53. Translocations or isochromosome formations at sites of low-copy DNA repeats in 17p10 to 17p12 appear to be the mechanism for the loss of TP53 in B-CLL."
1989	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common leukemia of adults in Western countries. The most frequent recurring chromosomal aberrations identified in B-CLL patients are trisomy 12 and deletions of 13q, 17p, and 11q. Cases with deletions of 11q and 17p have a poor prognosis, whereas cases with deletions in 13q have a favorable prognosis. It was previously shown that CLL patients with trisomy 12 and del(13)(q14) have a higher rate of asynchronous replication of normal structural genes when compared to those with normal karyotypes. We studied the replication pattern of the structural locus 21q22 and  the imprinted gene SNRPN and its telomere (15qter) and the random aneuploidy of chromosomes 9 and 18 in CLL patients with trisomy 12 and deletions of 11q and 17p, and compared the results to those of CLL patients without these aberrations  and to healthy controls. Random aneuploidy rate was higher in the group of patients with trisomy 12 as compared to all other groups. The replication pattern with higher asynchronous pattern was found in both aberration groups compared to  the CLL patients without the aberrations and to the control group with involvement of 21q22 and 15qter, whereas the highest synchronous group was found  in the 2 aberrations CLL patient groups compared to the other groups with the imprinted locus SNRPN. The existence and significance of chromosomal aberrations  in CLL have a deleterious effect on the processes of cell cycle and gene replication and may have biological and prognostic implications."
1990	"The Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) Leukemia Correlative Science Committee (LCSC) has a remarkable history of outstanding productivity and has been at the cutting edge of correlative science for adult leukemia for almost 25 years. Its work, initially focused on the use of immunophenotyping for diagnosis and prognosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia, has, for the last 15 years, focused on the clinical use of cytogenetic and molecular genetic markers in acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia as well as in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Numerous CALGB LCSC studies have had a major effect on the way we currently diagnose, predict outcome, select appropriate treatment, document complete remission, and monitor residual disease  in adults with acute leukemia. In part as a result of the work of the CALGB LCSC, we are increasingly moving toward molecularly targeted therapy in acute and chronic leukemias. In this report, we briefly review those contributions from the CALGB LCSC that have had, or are likely to have in the future, a major effect on  how we currently manage leukemia and outline directions of ongoing and future research conducted by the CALGB LCSC."
1991	"HSV-1 amplicon vectors efficiently transduce cultured antigen-presenting cells (APC), including both human and murine dendritic cells as well as primary human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells. Helper-free amplicons have been shown to be especially well-suited for this purpose, since they do not impair the antigen-presenting functions of these target cells. In vivo, amplicon vectors have been used in preclinical studies aimed at the development of therapeutic cancer vaccines, as well as vaccines for Alzheimer's disease, and selected microbial pathogens. Studies in small animal model systems have shown that ex vivo transduction of irradiated tumor cells with amplicon vectors encoding immunomodulatory cytokines such as IL-2 or GM-CSF can elicit protective responses against a tumor challenge. In an experimental model for cancer immunotherapy, direct transduction of preformed tumors with vectors encoding CD40L resulted in slowed tumor growth or tumor eradication. Other studies have examined the ability of amplicons to elicit immune responses against encoded antigens, and have shown  that strong cellular immune responses can be generated against amplicon encoded HIV-1 antigens in mice. Thus, amplicon vectors have shown significant promise as  vaccine vectors in a range of settings. These promising initial findings highlight the need to perform additional studies, including experiments to evaluate the immunogenicity of amplicon vectors in additional animal models, possibly including nonhuman primates. Overall, amplicon vectors offer compelling  advantages when compared to other vaccine-delivery platforms, which include the capacity to incorporate a very large transgene payload and the potential to efficiently transduce mucosal surfaces. It will be important to design future studies to directly test and exploit these features of the amplicon system. The next few years therefore promise to be an exciting and important period in the development of amplicons as vaccine vectors."
1997	"BACKGROUND: Urticarial vasculitis is a form of cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis clinically characterized by persistent and often painful urticarial lesions. Numerous systemic diseases have been associated with urticarial vasculitis, including certain hematologic disorders. This distinctive form of cutaneous necrotizing vasculitis can be resistant to standard therapeutic modalities, necessitating more aggressive intervention. METHODS: We report a case of refractory urticarial vasculitis developing in association with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia in a 46-year-old man. We also reviewed the literature to identify other cases of urticarial vasculitis managed with this therapeutic modality. RESULTS: The disease progressively improved during 6 treatments with plasmapheresis (plasma exchange). In the additional cases identified in the literature, plasmapheresis was generally effective and well tolerated. CONCLUSION: On the basis of these findings, we propose that plasmapheresis be considered a treatment option for refractory urticarial vasculitis."
1998	"The oncofetal Ag immature laminin receptor (OFA-iLR) is a potential target molecule for immunotherapeutic studies in several tumor entities, including hematological malignancies. In the present study, we characterize two HLA-A*0201-presented epitopes eliciting strong OFA-iLR peptide-specific human cytotoxic T cell (CTLs) responses in vitro. Both allogeneic HLA-A*0201-matched and autologous CTLs recognized and killed endogenously OFA-iLR-expressing tumor cell lines and primary malignant cells from patients with hemopoietic malignancies in an MHC-restricted fashion but spared nonmalignant hemopoietic cells. Spontaneous OFA-iLR peptide-specific T cell reactivity was detectable in a significant proportion of leukemia patients. Interestingly, in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma but not in those with acute myeloid leukemia, significant frequencies of OFA peptide-specific CTLs could be detected in an early stage of disease but disappeared in patients with progressive disease. The identification of OFA-iLR-derived peptide epitopes provides a basis for tumor immunological studies and therapeutic vaccination strategies in patients with OFA-iLR-expressing malignancies."
1999	"To date, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable with current treatments, which include the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) rituximab and alemtuzumab. The efficacy of rituximab is modest when used as single agent, and alemtuzumab induces severe immunosuppression. To develop more potent and specific therapies, we propose the CC chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) as an attractive target  molecule to treat CLL, as it not only fulfills the requirements of a high-surface expression and a good level of tissue specificity, but it also plays a crucial role in mediating the migration of the tumor cells to lymph nodes (LNs) and thus, in the development of clinical lymphadenopathy. In the current work, murine anti-human CCR7 mAb mediated a potent, complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) against CLL cells while sparing normal T lymphocytes from the same patients. The  sensitivity to CDC was related to the antigenic density of CCR7. Moreover, these  mAb blocked the in vitro migration of CLL cells in response to CC chemokine ligand 19 (CCL19), one of the physiological ligands of CCR7. Conversely, CLL cells were poorly lysed through antibody-dependent, cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), probably as a result of the murine origin and the isotype of the anti-CCR7 mAb used. Molecular engineering techniques will allow us to obtain chimeric or humanized anti-CCR7 mAb to reach the best clinical response for this  common and yet incurable leukemia."
2001	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a heterogenous disease with a highly variable clinical course. Recent studies have shown that expression of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and ADAM29 may serve as novel prognostic markers in B-CLL. To investigate the prognostic value of these genes, we quantified their expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) in a cohort of 133 B-CLL patients and correlated the results with clinical outcome, and other known prognostic factors. LPL, ADAM29, LPL and ADAM29 ratios, as well as CD38 and ZAP-70 protein expression determined by multiparameter flow cytometry, were predictive of treatment-free survival. Multivariate Cox regression analysis identified LPL, ADAM29 and CD38 as independent prognostic markers. Evaluation of  several disease characteristics in association with the LPL expression status of  the patients' B-CLL cells showed highly significant differences for CD38 and ZAP-70 expression, suggesting a correlation of LPL expression with these established adverse prognostic factors. Sequential RQ-PCR analyses in a subset of 22 patients revealed that LPL mRNA expression was relatively stable in the majority of patients, whereas ADAM29 expression levels varied substantially over  time. Furthermore, in a subgroup analysis, LPL provided prognostic information in both early stage (Binet A) and patients with more advanced disease (Binet B and C). Conversely, high ADAM29 expression was predictive of a long treatment-free interval in Binet stage A but did not retain its prognostic significance in Binet B and C patients. The LPL/ADAM29 expression ratio was not found to be an independent prognostic factor and did not offer any advantages over the use of LPL alone. Collectively, our data confirm a role for LPL as a novel prognostic indicator in B-CLL."
2002	"Syndecan-1 is a transmembrane proteoglycan generally not expressed in mature B-cell neoplasias like chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Moreover, information  dealing with the evaluation of soluble syndecan-1 in CLL are lacking. We measured syndecan-1 concentrations in serum drawn at the time of diagnosis from 67 B-cell  CLL patients (Binet stage A, 46; stage B, 7; stage C, 14). For this purpose a syndecan-1 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA, Diaclone, Besancon, France)  was used. Detectable levels of syndecan-1 were found in all patients, although serum concentrations were significantly lower in CLL patients in comparison to age- and sex-matched controls (P = 0.02; Mann-Whitney test). No correlation was found with Binet clinical stages (P = 0.796), beta2-microglobulin (P = 0.923), hemoglobin level (P = 0.605), platelet count (P = 0.992) and lymphocyte doubling  time (P = 0.709). Only an association with absolute peripheral blood lymphocytosis (PBL) (P = 0.01) and LDH (P = 0.05) could be detected. Serum levels of syndecan-1 did not parallel those of several angiogenic cytokines such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) (P = 0.963), basic fibroblastic growth  factor (FGF-2) (P = 0.216), angiogenin (P = 0.478), metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) (P = 0.125) as well as bone marrow (BM) microvessel density (P = 0.110). The same applied with adhesion molecules such as CD54 (P = 0.233), CD108 (P = 0.799), CD44 (P = 0.816) and CD31 (P = 0.508). Interestingly, the inverse correlation (r = -0.4967; P = 0.03) between serum concentrations of syndecan-1 and plasma levels of stromal derived growth factor-1 (SDF-1) is in keeping with the different function, respectively, pro- and anti-apoptotic, of these molecules. In 46 Binet  stage A patients, serum levels of syndecan-1 were further evaluated as a dichotomous variable with respect to progression-free survival (PFS), an end-point surrogate for overall survival in early B-cell CLL. The best separation of curves was seen with a cut-off point at the median value of syndecan-1 (i.e. 36.5 pg/ml). Median PFS was not reached in the patient group with low syndecan-1, compared to a median of 34 months observed in the remaining patients (P = 0.018;  HR = 0.208; 95% CI = 0.115 - 0.816). At the multivariate analysis performed including variables significant in the univariate analysis [i.e. PBL (P = 0.03) and syndecan-1 (P = 0.01)], only syndecan-1 retained a trend of significance (P = 0.08). Despite the pro-angiogenic activity of syndecan-1 which mediates FGF-2 binding and activity, no correlation with either angiogenic cytokines or the extent of BM angiogenesis was found in CLL. The inverse correlation with plasma levels of SDF-1 suggests an involvement in the processes leading to apoptosis. Finally, our results highlight the involvement of syndecan-1 in the mechanisms of disease-progression of early CLL."
2003	"Recent improved treatments for lymphoid malignancies produce more long-term survivors, yet increase the risk for secondary malignancies. Therapy-related myelodysplasia and acute myeloid leukemia are well described, but secondary chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has only rarely been reported. We report three patients with CML diagnosed 8, 10 and 2.5 years following Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia therapy, respectively. BCR-ABL transcripts were not detected after completion of primary therapy in two  cases. All three patients received imatinib therapy, with one patient subsequently undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. All three patients have ongoing favorable responses to CML therapy."
2005	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is frequent in the West, but rare in Korea. In this study, the frequency of chromosome aberration in Korean CLL patients was examined by applying interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Conventional cytogenetic test and FISH were performed on bone marrow aspirates obtained from 16 CLL patients. By applying DNA probes (Vysis, Downers Grove, IL,  USA), the deletion in 11q22-23, 13q14, 13q34, and 17p13, and trisomy 12 were examined. With FISH, molecular cytogenetic aberration was detected in 10 of 16 patients [63%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 39-86], whereas with conventional cytogenetic test, chromosomal aberration was detected only in 2 out of 13 cases (15%, 95% CI 0-35). In total, the cases with one or more chromosomal aberrations  were 11 out of 16 cases (69%, 95% CI 46-92). The most frequently detected aberration was the 13q14 deletion (69%, 95% CI 44-94), followed by trisomy 12 (19%, 95% CI 0-38) and 11q22 deletion (14%, 95% CI 0-33). No deletion in 17p13 was observed. In conclusion, CLL in Korean is a heterogeneous genetic disorder, showing similar genetic changes in Europe and North America."
2006	"We have studied the in vitro actions of the sesquiterpene lactone parthenolide (PTL) on cells isolated from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Dye reduction viability assays showed that the median LD(50) for PTL was 6.2 muM  (n=78). Fifteen of these isolates were relatively resistant to the conventional agent chlorambucil but retained sensitivity to PTL. Brief exposures to PTL (1-3 h) were sufficient to induce caspase activation and commitment to cell death. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells were more sensitive towards PTL than were normal T lymphocytes or CD34(+) haematopoietic progenitor cells. The mechanism of cell killing was via PTL-induced generation of reactive oxygen species, resulting in turn in a proapoptotic Bax conformational change, release of mitochondrial cytochrome c and caspase activation. Parthenolide also decreased nuclear levels of the antiapoptotic transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B and diminished phosphorylation of its negative regulator IkappaB. Killing of CLL cells by PTL was apparently independent of p53 induction. This is the first report showing the relative selectivity of PTL towards CLL cells. The data here warrant further investigation of this class of natural product as potential therapeutic agents for CLL."
2008	"Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins are phosphorylated and activated by Janus kinases (JAKs). Recently, several groups identified a recurrent somatic point mutation constitutively activating the hematopoietic growth factor receptor-associated JAK2 tyrosine kinase in diverse chronic myeloid disorders - most commonly classic myeloproliferative disorders (MPD), especially polycythemia vera. We hypothesized that the JAK2 V617F mutation might also be present in samples from patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), especially erythroleukemia (AML-M6) or megakaryoblastic leukemia (AML-M7), where  it might mimic erythropoietin or thrombopoietin signaling. First, we documented STAT3 activation by immunoblotting in AML-M6 and other AML subtypes. Immunoperoxidase staining confirmed phosphorylated STAT3 in malignant myeloblasts (21% of cases, including all AML-M3 samples tested). We then analyzed genomic DNA from 162 AML, 30 B-cell lymphoma, and 10 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) samples for JAK2 mutations, and assayed a subset for SOCS1 and FLT3 mutations. Janus kinase2 V617F was present in 13/162 AML samples (8%): 10/13 transformed MPD, and three apparent de novo AML (one of 12 AML-M6, one of 24 AML-M7, and one  AML-M2 - all mixed clonality). FLT3 mutations were present in 5/32 (16%), while SOCS1 mutations were totally absent. Lymphoproliferative disorder samples were both JAK2 and SOCS1 wild type. Thus, while JAK2 V617F is uncommon in de novo AML  and probably does not occur in lymphoid malignancy, unexplained STAT3 activation  is common in AML. Janus kinase2 extrinsic regulators and other proteins in the JAK-STAT pathway should be interrogated to explain frequent STAT activation in AML."
2009	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that may transform into higher-grade lymphoma. The transformation involves an increased number of prolymphocytic cells, termed prolymphocytic transformation (PLT) or the development of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBL), also referred to as Richter's transformation (RT). To analyze whether activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), which is essential for somatic hypermutation (SHM) of normal B-cells, and malfunction of SHM termed aberrant somatic hypermutation (ASHM) are associated with higher-grade transformation of CLL, AID mRNA expression and the mutation pattern of c-MYC, PAX-5 and RhoH genes were analyzed  in eight cases of CLL without transformation and in 21 cases that showed RT or PLT. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases, which showed no transformation or eventually transformed into higher-grade lymphoma, showed low levels of AID mRNA  expression and low frequency of mutations of c-MYC, PAX-5 and RhoH genes. In both RT and PLT, high-levels of AID mRNA expression and high-frequency mutations of c-MYC, PAX-5 and RhoH genes were detected. These results indicate that AID expression and ASHM are associated with higher-grade transformation of CLL and provide further evidences that AID expression and ASHM may be activated during the clonal history of B-cell lymphomas."
2010	"BACKGROUND: Intravenous immunoglobulin (IGIV) is used in the treatment of a wide  variety of immune disorders. To our knowledge, no comprehensive or systematic review on the pharmacokinetics of IGIV has been published despite the availability of many published individual studies. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review published studies of the pharmacokinetics of  IGIV. METHODOLOGY: We conducted a search of PubMed/MEDLINE from January 1966-September  2005 and EMBASE from January 1980-September 2005 for English-language articles on the pharmacokinetics of IGIV. This search was supplemented by a bibliographic review of all relevant articles. RESULTS: Data elements extracted from these articles included study design, number of study subjects, indication for IGIV therapy, IGIV treatment regimen (formulation, dosage, and duration), pharmacokinetic parameters (clearance, volume of distribution, elimination rate constant, and half-life), analytic methodology, pharmacokinetic model, and blood sampling times. The United States Preventive Services Task Force rating scale was used to categorize the 50 pertinent citations identified in our literature search. According to the rating  scale, 12 studies were level I (prospective, randomized, controlled studies), 3 were level II-1 (prospective, nonrandomized, controlled studies), 30 were level II-2 (prospective, nonrandomized, uncontrolled [cohort] studies), and 5 were level III (case reports or descriptive studies). CONCLUSION: The pharmacokinetics of IGIV shows considerable intra- and interpopulation variability among patients with normal immunoglobulin levels, patients with primary immunodeficiency diseases, bone marrow transplant recipients, patients with immune deficiency due to chronic lymphocytic leukemia or multiple myeloma, very low birth weight neonates, neonates with suspected sepsis, high-risk infants in the neonatal intensive care unit, high-risk infants  with cardiopulmonary disease, children with cryptogenic West or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, women and infants with fetal alloimmune thrombocytopenia, and women with recurrent spontaneous abortions. Despite the large number of studies characterizing the pharmacokinetics of IGIV, major literature gaps include lack of information on IGIV clearance or area under the curve parameters and target serum immunoglobulin G concentrations. Further study is needed to rigorously characterize the pharmacokinetic properties of IGIV in a range of patient populations."
2012	"PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to assess the incidence, presenting characteristics, and treatment outcomes of Richter's syndrome (RS) and factors predicting response and survival. PATIENTS AND METHODS: An electronic database search of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) who presented at The  University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center (Houston, TX) between January 1975 and June 2005 was performed, and patient medical records were reviewed. RESULTS: Of the 3,986 patients with CLL/SLL, 204 patients (5.1%) had possible RS, and 148 patients (3.7%) had biopsy- or fine-needle aspiration-proven RS. Treatment included chemotherapy alone and chemoimmunotherapy with rituximab. The  overall response rate for the 130 assessable patients was 39% (chemotherapy, 34%; chemoimmunotherapy, 47%; P = .2). In multivariate analysis, factors predicting prolonged survival were Zubrod performance status 0-1 (P = .006), lactate dehydrogenase < or = 1.5x the upper limit of normal (P = .003), platelet count >  or = 100,000 (P = .01), tumor size < or = 5 cm (P = .02), and fewer than two prior therapies (P = .02). The five adverse factors predicting shorter survival were used to design a model to predict an individual patient's risk of death: the RS score. A total of 20 patients underwent stem-cell transplantation (SCT). Patients who underwent allogeneic SCT as postremission therapy had longer survival than patients who achieved remission and received no additional therapy  or patients who underwent allogeneic or autologous SCT as salvage therapy (P = .019). CONCLUSION: A score to predict an individual patient's risk of death is proposed. Chemotherapy and rituximab combinations are effective in RS. Patients with available donors may be considered for allogeneic SCT as postremission therapy."
2013	"PURPOSE: Treatment with alemtuzumab has resulted in negative responses for minimal residual disease (MRD) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In a prior analysis we demonstrated that it is possible to achieved MRD negativity, as assessed by polyclonality of immunoglobulin heavy chain after consolidation with alemtuzumab. This phase II study evaluated 34 patients with CLL who received alemtuzumab consolidation in an effort to improve the quality of their response to fludarabine-based induction. Subsequent peripheral blood stem-cell (PBSC) collection and transplantation, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics also were assessed. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-four patients younger than 65 years who had a clinical response to fludarabine-based induction therapy received alemtuzumab 10  mg subcutaneously three times per week for 6 weeks. PBSCs were collected after mobilization with cytarabine and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. Blood samples for pharmacokinetics study were taken between days 1 and 31. RESULTS: The complete response rate improved from 35% after fludarabine induction to 79.4% after alemtuzumab consolidation, including 19 patients (56%) who achieved MRD negativity. The most common adverse events were injection-site reactions and fever. Cytomegalovirus reactivation occurred in 18 patients, all of whom were successfully treated with oral ganciclovir. PBSC collection was successful in 24 (92%) of 26 patients, and 18 patients underwent autologous PBSC  transplantation. Alemtuzumab plasma concentrations increased gradually during the first 2 weeks and accumulated more rapidly thereafter. CONCLUSION: Subcutaneously administered alemtuzumab was effective, safe, and well tolerated as consolidation therapy in patients with CLL who responded to fludarabine induction therapy. Subsequent PBSCT was feasible thereafter."
2014	"Genomic material from chromosome band 13q14.3 distal to the retinoblastoma locus  is recurrently lost in a variety of human neoplasms, indicating an as-yet-unidentified tumor-suppressor mechanism. No pathogenic mutations have been found in the minimally deleted region until now. However, in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia tumors with loss of one copy of the critical region, respective candidate tumor-suppressor genes are down-regulated by a factor >2, which would be expected by a normal gene-dosage effect. This finding points to an epigenetic pathomechanism. We find that the two copies of the critical region replicate asynchronously, suggesting differential chromatin packaging of the two  copies of 13q14.3. Although we also detect monoallelic silencing of genes localized in the critical region, monoallelic expression originates from either the maternal or paternal copy, excluding an imprinting mechanism. DNA methylation analyses revealed one CpG island of the region to be methylated. DNA demethylation of this CpG island and global histone hyperacetylation induced biallelic expression, whereas replication timing was not affected. We propose that differential replication timing represents an early epigenetic mark that distinguishes the two copies of 13q14.3, resulting in differential chromatin packaging and monoallelic expression. Accordingly, deletion of the single active  copy of 13q14.3 results in significant down-regulation of the candidate genes and loss of function, providing a model for the interaction of genetic lesions and epigenetic silencing at 13q14.3 in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
2015	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by the accumulation  of long-lived CD5(+) B lymphocytes. Several drugs currently used in the therapy of B-CLL act, at least partially, through activation of the p53 pathway. Recently, nongenotoxic small-molecule activators of p53, the nutlins, have been developed that inhibit p53-MDM2 binding. We have investigated the antitumor potential of nutlin-3 in B-CLL and find that it can activate the p53 pathway and  effectively induce apoptosis in cells with wild-type p53, including cells with dysfunctional ataxia telangiectasia mutated, but not mutant p53. Nutlin-3 stabilized p53 and induced p53 target genes, including MDM2, p21(CIP1), PUMA, BAX, PIG3, and WIG1. Nutlin-3 synergized with the genotoxic drugs doxorubicin, chlorambucil, and fludarabine, but not with acadesine, which induces p53-independent apoptosis. Normal human T cells showed lower sensitivity to nutlin-3 than B-CLL cells and no synergism with the genotoxic drugs. These results suggest that MDM2 antagonists alone or in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs may offer a new treatment option for B-CLL."
2016	"Deletions and/or mutations of p53 are relatively rare and late events in the natural history of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). However, it is unknown whether p53 signaling is functional in B-CLL and if targeted nongenotoxic activation of the p53 pathway by using nutlin-3, a small molecule inhibitor of the p53/MDM2 interaction, is sufficient to kill B-CLL cells. In vitro treatment with nutlin-3 induced a significant cytotoxicity on primary CD19(+) B-CLL cells,  but not on normal CD19(+) B lymphocytes, peripheral-blood mononuclear cells, or bone marrow hematopoietic progenitors. Among 29 B-CLL samples examined, only one  was resistant to nutlin-3-mediated cytotoxicity. The induction of p53 by nutlin-3 in B-CLL samples was accompanied by alterations of the mitochondrial potential and activation of the caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway. Among several genes related to the p53 pathway, nutlin-3 up-regulated the steady-state mRNA levels of PCNA, CDKN1A/p21, GDF15, TNFRSF10B/TRAIL-R2, TP53I3/PIG3, and GADD45. This profile of gene activation showed a partial overlapping with that induced by the  genotoxic drug fludarabine. Moreover, nutlin-3 synergized with both fludarabine and chlorambucil in inducing B-CLL apoptosis. Our data strongly suggest that nutlin-3 should be further investigated for clinical applications in the treatment of B-CLL."
2017	"BACKGROUND: CD40 plays a critical role in immunoregulation, and CD40 ligation is  being investigated as a therapy for hematologic malignancies. Although soluble CD40 (sCD40) is a potential modulator of both antitumor responses and CD40-based  therapies, the levels and significance of sCD40 in patients with hematologic malignancies are unknown. METHODS: The authors evaluated serum/plasma sCD40 levels using an enzyme-linked immunoassay in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), and multiple myeloma (MM). RESULTS: Levels of sCD40 were elevated in serum (>1.697 ng/mL) or plasma (>0.649  ng/mL) from 73% of patients with CLL, 80% of patients with MCL, 40% of patients with AML, 43% of patients with MDS, and 33% of patients with MM. Multivariate analysis of patients with MM demonstrated that elevated sCD40 was a significant,  independent predictor of poor survival. In multivariate analysis of patients with AML, sCD40 was a significant prognostic factor when the interaction of age and sCD40 was included as a variable. Further analysis demonstrated that elevated sCD86 levels were associated with significantly shorter survival only in AML patients younger than age 64 years. Release of sCD40 by CLL cells was induced by  cross-linking with CD40 monoclonal antibody. CONCLUSIONS: Many patients with hematologic malignancies have elevated circulating levels of sCD40, and these elevated levels are associated with a poor prognosis at least in patients with MM and AML, suggesting that sCD40 may have a  role in modulating antitumor responses and also may be a useful prognostic marker. In addition, the findings suggested that further studies will be required to determine the effect of circulating sCD40 on the clinical effectiveness of CD40-ligating reagents used in the treatment of hematologic malignancies."
2018	"BACKGROUND: The safety and efficacy of the interleukin-2 diphtheria toxin fusion  protein (DAB(389)IL2; denileukin diftitox) directed against the IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) was tested in patients with recurrent or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: Denileukin diftitox was administered as 60-minute intravenous infusions  for 5 days every 21 days at a dose of 18 mug/kg per day for up to 8 cycles. In total, 28 patients were treated in 2 multiinstitutional studies with similar eligibility criteria and treatment protocols. Twenty-two patients receive > or =  2 cycles of denileukin diftitox and were evaluable for response. RESULTS: Twelve of 22 patients achieved reductions of peripheral CLL cells, with  5 of 12 patients achieving >80% reductions. Six of 22 patients achieved reductions in the size of lymph node on examination and computed tomography scans, and all 6 of those patients met the criteria for a partial or complete response that lasted > or = 2 months. Bone marrow biopsies before and after treatment confirmed a complete remission that lasted for 1 year in 1 patient. Overall, denileukin diftitox produced complete remission in 1 of 22 patients (4%) and partial remission in 5 of 22 patients (23%) for a total remission rate of 27%. Progression-free intervals in the responders were 2 months in 2 patients and 4 months, 6 months, 7 months, and 12 months in 1 patient each. Toxicities were moderate. No infections associated with immunosuppression were seen. There was no significant correlation of response or toxicities with the numbers of denileukin  diftitox cycles received or with CD25 levels. CONCLUSIONS: Follow-up studies will be required to identify predictors of response that may improve the response rate to denileukin diftitox in patients with CLL."
2019	"Matrix metalloproteinase-9 is involved in inflammation and tumor progression. We  previously demonstrated that interferon type I (alpha/beta) and II (gamma) inhibit matrix metalloproteinase-9 (92kDa) gene expression on lymphocytes from patients with B chronic lymphocytic leukemia and human monocytes. Since all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) can regulate some interferon -responsive genes, we studied here the effects of all-trans retinoic acid onto matrix metalloproteinase-9 levels in these cells. By using RT-PCR, ELISA and zymography experiments, we showed that all-trans retinoic acid down-regulated matrix metalloproteinase-9 synthesis (mRNA,protein) and secretion. The inhibitory action of all-trans retinoic acid toward matrix metalloproteinase-9 was however not associated with the STAT1/IRF-1 pathway involved in interferon-mediated matrix metalloproteinase-9 inhibition indicating that all-trans retinoic acid did not bypass IFN receptor signaling. Using flow cytometry, we detected on the surface of monocytes low expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 and Fc-gammaRI, and high expression of HLA-DR, beta1 and beta2 integrins. Enhancement of Fc-gammaRI and HLA-DR on monocytes by interferon-gamma, but not by all-trans retinoic acid,  was accompanied by up-regulation of surface matrix metalloproteinase-9. Furthermore, we showed that all-trans retinoic acid down-regulated matrix metalloproteinase-9 expression in lymphocytes of untreated patients with early stage B chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Together, our data suggest the potential relevance of all-trans retinoic acid as a pharmacological tool to attenuate matrix metalloproteinase-9 secretion in pathological situations."
2021	"In an attempt to exploit bcl-2 overexpression and aberrant p53 function, two frequently encountered aberrations that predict marked treatment resistance and worse prognosis in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), we combined theophylline, pentostatin, and chlorambucil at two dose levels (cohort I: 30 mg/m(2); cohort II: 20 mg/m(2)) on  a 21-day cycle for up to six courses. We employed a phase I/II design to determine feasibility, define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and explore the impact of biologic modulation on response and time to progression (TTP) in 20 patients with relapsed or refractory CLL and NHL. Eight patients were enrolled in cohort I. They demonstrated a response rate (RR) of 28% and a 16.5-month TTP after receiving a median of two cycles. A 50% RR was observed in this cohort when patients with adverse histologies were excluded. Because of myelotoxicity, this dose level defined the MTD, and de-escalation occurred. All 12 patients in cohort II received 20 mg/m(2) chlorambucil. A 50% RR and an 18-month TTP were observed after a median of 5.5 cycles. An RR of 47% and a complete remission (CR) of 5% were observed for the entire group, although responses and TTP varied greatly by  histology. Significant activity was observed in patients with B-cell CLL and follicular lymphoma (FL). RR and TTP for fludarabine-sensitive/naïve and fludarabine-refractory (FR) B-cell CLL patients were 66 vs 25% and 20 vs 8.5 months, respectively. Both FL patients responded (one with partial remission and  one with CR), with a 22.5-monthly median TTP. For responding patients, median TTP and overall survival (OS) was 21 and 69 months, respectively, compared to a median TTP of 2 months and an OS of 13.5 months for nonresponders. The combination of pentostatin, chlorambucil, and theophylline is the active regimen  in patients with FL and B-cell CLL."
2022	"Minor histocompatibility antigens (mHAg's) are peptides encoded by polymorphic genes that are presented by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules and  recognized by T cells in recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplants. Here we report that an alternative transcript of the proliferation-associated nuclear element 1 (PANE1) gene encodes a novel human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A(*)0301-restricted mHAg that is selectively expressed in B-lymphoid cells. The antigenic peptide is entirely encoded within a unique exon not present in other PANE1 transcripts. Sequencing of PANE1 alleles in mHAg-positive and mHAg-negative cells demonstrates that differential T-cell recognition is due to a single nucleotide polymorphism within the variant exon that replaces an arginine  codon with a translation termination codon. The PANE1 transcript that encodes the mHAg is expressed at high levels in resting CD19(+) B cells and B-lineage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells, and at significantly lower levels in activated B cells. Activation of B-CLL cells through CD40 ligand (CD40L) stimulation decreases expression of the mHAg-encoding PANE1 transcript and reciprocally increases expression of PANE1 transcripts lacking the mHAg-encoding  exon. These studies suggest distinct roles for different PANE1 isoforms in resting compared with activated CD19(+) cells, and identify PANE1 as a potential  therapeutic target in B-CLL."
2023	"Interleukin-21 (IL-21) is a member of the IL-2 cytokine family, which mediates proliferation or growth arrest and apoptosis of normal B cells, depending on their activation state. Here we demonstrate that surface IL-21 receptor (R) is expressed at variable levels by chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells freshly isolated from 33 different patients. IL-21R expression was up-regulated following cell stimulation via surface CD40. Therefore, IL-21 effects were more evident in CD40-activated CLL B cells. IL-21 induced an early signaling cascade in CLL B cells, which included JAK-1 and JAK-3 autophosphorylation and tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT-1, STAT-3, and STAT-5. IL-21 signaling failed to stimulate CLL B-cell proliferation, but induced their apoptosis. In addition, IL-21 counteracted the proliferative and antiapoptotic signals delivered by IL-15 to CLL B cells. IL-21-mediated apoptosis involved activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3, cleavage of Bid to its active form t-Bid, and cleavage of PARP and of  p27Kip-1. Recent data indicate that CLL B cells require interaction with the microenvironment for their survival and expansion. The present findings thus provide a set of new mechanisms involved in the balance between cell-survival and apoptotic signals in CLL B cells."
2024	"Molecular markers like IgV(H) mutational status, chromosomal abnormalities, and CD38 and ZAP-70 expression have prognostic value in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). These may be pathogenetic because of the coincidental expression of ZAP-70 and increased B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling and the signaling function of CD38 in CLL. This study shows that ZAP-70(+) CLL B cells respond in vitro more readily than ZAP-70(-) CLL and normal B cells to chemokine  migratory signals through enhanced surface CCR7 expression (P = .009; P < .001) and increased responsiveness to its ligands CCL19 and CCL21, demonstrated by F-actin polymerization (P < .05) and cellular migration (P < .01). In addition, ZAP-70(+) CLL cells exhibit sustained ERK phosphorylation/activation following stimulation with CXCL12 (SDF1-alpha, a survival factor produced by stromal cells) compared with ZAP-70(-) cells (P = .004). Following coculture with nurse-like cells, the survival of ZAP-70(+) but not ZAP-70(-) CLL cells is significantly enhanced by the addition of CXCL12 (P < .05), an effect that is partially blocked by the MEK inhibitor PD98059. These advantageous migratory and survival responses may promote easier access to and greater proliferation in pseudo-germinal centers and explain in part the more progressive nature of ZAP-70(+) disease."
2025	"For many years, alkylating agents, especially chlorambucil, have been considered  the drugs of choice for first-line treatment of progressive and symptomatic chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). More recently, treatment approaches have included purine nucleoside analogs (PNAs), fludarabine or cladribine (2-CdA), and monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs). PNAs are highly active in patients with CLL, previously treated and untreated. Significantly higher overall response and complete response in patients treated initially with fludarabine or 2-CdA than in those treated with chlorambucil- or cyclophosphamide-based combination regimens have been recently confirmed in prospective, randomized trials. However, the median survival times do not differ among the patients treated with PNA and alkylating agents. The MoAbs directed against CD52 antigen (alemtuzumab) and CD20 antigen (rituximab) also demonstrate significant activity in CLL and should be used in patients with disease that is refractory to PNAs. Combination therapies with PNAs and cyclophosphamide, and especially with rituximab, are more active than monotherapy with PNAs in regard to response rate and possible survival. Because most patients are older and there is no survival time advantage for alkylating agents or PNA therapies, we recommend chlorambucil as the first-line treatment, with PNAs for consideration as the second-line therapy. PNAs alone or  in combination with cyclophosphamide and rituximab as first-line treatment are an option in younger patients, who may be candidates for consolidation therapy with  alemtuzumab and/or stem cell transplantation. Alemtuzumab may be an effective treatment for patients refractory to PNAs. Several biological parameters have been gaining increasing importance to evaluate the prognosis of patients with CLL and define optimal therapeutic strategy. Moreover, novel therapies are being evaluated, especially in patients refractory to PNAs, including those targeting the antiapoptotic bcl-2 family of proteins and receptors, vaccines, and allogenic stem cell transplantation, especially after nonmyeloablative chemotherapy."
2026	"BACKGROUND: Proteomics and functional genomics have revolutionized approaches to  disease classification. Like proteomics, flow cytometry (FCM) assesses concurrent expression of many proteins, with the advantage of using intact cells that may be differentially selected during analysis. However, FCM has generally been used for incremental marker validation or construction of predictive models based on known patterns, rather than as a tool for unsupervised class discovery. We undertook a  retrospective analysis of clinical FCM data to assess the feasibility of a cell-based proteomic approach to FCM by unsupervised cluster analysis. METHODS: Multicolor FCM data on peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) lymphocytes from 140 consecutive patients with B-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (LPDs), including 81 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLLs), were studied. Expression was normalized for CD19 totals, and recorded for 10 additional B-cell  markers. Data were subjected to hierarchical cluster analysis using complete linkage by Pearson's correlation. Analysis of CLL in PB samples (n = 63) discovered three major clusters. One cluster (14 patients) was skewed toward "atypical" CLL and was characterized by high CD20, CD22, FMC7, and light chain, and low CD23. The remaining two clusters consisted almost entirely (48/49) of cases recorded as typical BCLL. The smaller "typical" BCLL cluster differed from  the larger cluster by high CD38 (P = 0.001), low CD20 (P = 0.001), and low CD23 (P = 0.016). These two typical BCLL clusters showed a trend toward a difference in survival (P = 0.1090). Statistically significant cluster stability was demonstrated by expanding the dataset to include BM samples, and by using a method of random sampling with replacement. CONCLUSIONS: This study supports the concept that unsupervised immunophenotypic profiling of FCM data can yield reproducible subtypes of lymphoma/chronic leukemia. Expanded studies are warranted in the use of FCM as an unsupervised class discovery tool, akin to other proteomic methods, rather than as a validation tool."
2027	"A descriptive epidemiologic study of cancer mortality among residents of counties near the Hanford nuclear facility site in Richland, Washington, was conducted. Between 1944 and 1957, radioactive 131I was released into the environment from the Hanford site. Cancer mortality from 1950 through 2000 was evaluated in four counties with the highest estimated exposure to 131I and compared with the cancer mortality experience in five demographically similar counties in Washington State with minimal 131I exposure. Overall, cancer rates in the study counties were slightly below those in the comparison counties [relative risk (RR) 0.95; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.93-0.97], due mainly to a low risk for lung cancer (RR 0.89; 95% CI 0.85-0.93). Thyroid cancer (n=33; RR 0.84; 95% CI 0.56-1.26), female breast cancer (n=1,233; RR 0.99; 95% CI 0.92-1.06), leukemia other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n=492; RR 0.95; 95% CI 0.85-1.06), and childhood leukemia (n=71; RR=1.06; 95% CI 0.78-1.43) were not significantly increased in the exposed counties. Furthermore, there was no evidence that the cancer death rates over time differed between study and comparison counties. Patterns over time of thyroid cancer in particular were similar for exposure and comparison counties. Although based on a geographic correlation design, these data suggest that living near the Hanford site has not increased cancer rates."
2028	"Fludarabine is a nucleoside analogue that has been successfully employed for the  treatment of low-grade lymphoid malignancies and, more recently, in nonmyeloablative preparative regimens for stem cell transplantation, due to its strong cytotoxic activity on lymphocytes. In this paper, we show that fludarabine can also induce pro-inflammatory stimulation of monocytic cells, as evaluated by  increased expression of ICAM-1 and IL-8 release. To study the mechanisms involved, we employed selective inhibitors of MAPK and NF-kappaB pathways, both of which have been implicated in the modulation of ICAM-1 and IL-8. Our results showed that fludarabine effects were mediated through the activation of ERK and were independent on p38, JNK or NF-kappaB pathways. By Western blotting analysis  we corroborated that fludarabine induced a rapid activation of ERK that was sustained for at least 30 min. Moreover, pro-inflammatory activation of monocytic cells by fludarabine was largely attenuated by coadministration of the free radical scavenger N-acetylcysteine suggesting the involvement of reactive oxygen  species in fludarabine effects. Finally, we showed that fludarabine induced the activation of the transcription factor AP-1 not only in monocytic cells but also  in non-proliferating lymphocytes from chronic lymphocytic leukemia. It is possible that some of fludarabine side effects in vivo may be attributed to cell  activation/differentiation rather than induction of apoptosis."
2029	"Apoptosis protease-activating factor 1 (APAF-1), a transcriptional target of p53, is a cytosolic adaptor protein that links the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway to  the caspase cascade. Here, we aimed to study the impact of APAF-1 expression levels on cell death induced by anticancer drugs or ionizing irradiation (IR) and disease prognosis in B-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients. Samples from 138 patients with B-CLL were investigated for APAF-1 expression and  p53 mutations. The results were related to survival data, in vitro cytotoxicity of various cytotoxic drugs and IR and clinico-pathological data. Variable APAF-1  expression was observed in all investigated B-CLL samples. Reduction in APAF-1 expression was observed at both mRNA and protein level indicating transcriptional silencing whereas mutation of p53 or the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable genes (IgH(V)) had no impact on APAF-1 expression. Surprisingly, APAF-1 loss did  not result in resistance to cytotoxic therapies. Likewise, APAF-1 downregulation  on its own showed no impact on disease prognosis. Nevertheless, a poor prognosis  was observed in patients with loss of APAF-1 expression and additional p53 mutation. Thus, loss of APAF-1 may become relevant when additional core apoptosis signaling components are disrupted."
2030	"In the search for risk factors involved in the etiology of lymphoproliferative malignancies there is still inconsistent evidence regarding effects of smoking tobacco, and the role of smokeless tobacco is poorly investigated. New evidence indicates that excess body weight increases the risk of NHL and HD. To determine  if tobacco use of various forms and high Body Mass Index (BMI) affect the occurrence of these neoplasms, we conducted a prospective cohort study on over 330,000 Swedish construction workers included in the Construction Industry Working Environment and Health program. Information on smoking, snuff dipping, height and weight was gathered by self administered questionnaires together with  personal interviews. Cancer incidence was ascertained through the year 2000 by record linkage to the nationwide Swedish Cancer Registry, Migration Registry and  Cause of Death Registry. At the end of follow up, 1,309 subjects had been diagnosed with NHL (including chronic lymphocytic leukemia) and 205 with HD respectively. Age adjusted incidence rate ratios were computed using Cox proportional Hazard regression modeling. Smoking cigarette, pipe or cigar was not associated with NHL or HD. There was no evidence indicating a relation between quantity and duration of smoking and NHL or HD risk. No link was found between NHL and usage of smokeless tobacco. Having a BMI of 30 or higher did not convey excess risk of developing NHL or HD compared to normal weight (BMI 18.6-24.9). We conclude that tobacco smoking and high BMI do not entail an increased risk of NHL and HD. Our findings of a relation between the duration of snuff dipping and HD need further investigation."
2031	"This work describes the identification and impact of somatic genomic abnormalities in human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Using molecular cytogenetics (FISH) and G-banding cytogenetic analysis, chromosome abnormalities  were detected in 37 of 46 (80.4%) CLL patients. 13q14 deletion was the most common finding followed by trisomy 12 and 11q22.3 deletion. 17p13 deletion was also detected as were several less frequent chromosome abnormalities. The presence of these abnormalities significantly influenced the period of treatment-free survival as well as other clinical characteristics. In particular, CLL samples with trisomy 12 and 11q22.3 deletion were associated with shorter treatment-free survival. In order to identify the under-lying molecular differences among CLL subgroups with different chromosome abnormalities, gene expression profiling was performed on a custom DNA microarray consisting of 10,000 human gene-specific oligonucleotides. A gene dosage effect was observed where the expression of genes at the genetic loci of the sites of the somatic genomic abnormality was altered in a fashion according to the type of genomic change. This phenomenon was particularly evident in CLL samples with trisomy 12 and 17p13 deletion. Thus, this study demonstrates that genomic abnormalities influence gene expression in CLL by a dosage effect."
2032	"We have previously identified 12 surface antigens whose differential expression represented the signature of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) subsets  with different prognosis. In the present study, expression data for these antigens, as determined in 137 B-CLL cases, all with survivals, were utilized to  devise a comprehensive immunophenotypic scoring system of prognostic relevance for B-CLL patients. In particular, univariate z score was employed to identify the markers with greater prognostic impact, while maximally selected log-rank statistics were chosen to define the optimal cut-off points capable to split patients into two groups with different survivals. A weighted immunophenotypic scoring system was developed by integrating results from these analyses. Six antigens were selected: three positive prognosticators (CD62L, CD54, CD49c) and three negative prognosticators (CD49d, CD38, CD79b), with cut-off values ranging  from 30% to 50% of positive cells. By weighing the expression of each marker according to its statistical power, a complete scoring system, with point values  comprised between 0 (complete absence of phenotypic conditions associated with good prognosis) and 9 (all the phenotypic conditions associated with good prognosis fulfilled), allowed to split the whole set of B-CLL patients, into three distinctive prognostic groups (P = 4.78 x 10(-11)) with high- (score 0-3),  intermediate- (score 4-6), and low- (score 7-9) risk of death. The three risk groups showed different distribution of cases as for Rai's stages, IgVH mutations, and ZAP-70 expression. The proposed immunophenotypic scoring system may be an additional useful tool in routine diagnostic/prognostic procedures for  B-CLL."
2033	"Intravenous immunoglobulin is a preparation of immune globulins containing antibodies given intravenously to patients with both inherited and acquired immunodeficiency disorders, such as primary immune deficiency diseases, idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and bone marrow transplantation. This article discusses immune globulin products, routes of administration, and the role of the infusion nurse in the administration of intravenous immunoglobulin to the patient."
2034	"We present 2 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia infiltration of the lung  resulting in centrilobular nodularity on computed tomography. We present the x-ray and computed tomography patterns with pathological findings in these cases."
2036	"The simultaneous appearance of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been rarely reported, with AML occurring more frequently as a secondary event in patients receiving cytotoxic drugs for a primary lymphoproliferative disorder. We describe a case of simultaneous CLL and  AML documented by morphological and cytometric analysis in a previously untreated patient. In particular, on the basis of morphological and immunological features, the patient was diagnosed as being affected by CD34 + /CD13 + /CD33 + /HLA-DR + /CD7 + FAB-M2 AML, along with a B-CLL characterized by neoplastic cells expressing a VH3-53/D3-22/JH4 Ig, bearing, on average, 3.9% IgVH mutations without evidence of antigen-driven selection. To establish whether the two neoplastic cell populations shared some common molecular signature, we performed  IgH gene rearrangement studies on CD34 + /CD19- and CD34-/CD19 + immunomagnetically sorted cell populations: only genomic DNA from the CD19 + /CD34- cell fraction revealed the presence of the IgH gene rearrangement. These results provide evidence that the rare concomitant association of CLL and AML likely arises from simultaneous expansion of two independent clones."
2038	"B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by a highly variable clinical course which has long remained a stumbling block for clinicians. This variability appears to arise from complex molecular alterations identified in malignant cells from patient subsets. Recent studies have focused in particular on identifying new molecular markers to help predict the most effective and adapted treatments. In addition to the mutation status of immunoglobulin variable heavy-chain region (IgVH) genes, which is a well-established predictive factor in B-CLL, these new markers include defects of cell factors involved in the maintenance of genome stability, such as telomere function, DNA repair, ATM and p53. Other predictive factors, such as tyrosine kinase Zap-70 and soluble factors found in patient sera, may be associated with B-cell receptor signal transduction. Interestingly, an alteration of these factors fits closely, though  not strikingly, with the absence of somatic mutations in IgVH genes, suggesting that the latter may be due either to epigenetic events leading to an unstable genome or to an inherited defect in the immune response of malignant B-cells. Recent lessons from Zap-70 expression/phosphorylation suggest that some of these  markers may reflect the defective pathways in B-CLL cells rather than being markers of cell malignancy per se. Furthermore, specific subsets of markers are found in patient cells resistant to treatment. Current studies on gene expression profiling and proteomic analyses should soon lead to a better understanding of how these pathways are affected, especially in multi-drug resistant B-CLL."
2040	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a low-grade lymphoid malignancy incurable with conventional modalities of chemotherapy. Strong and constitutive nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) activation is a characteristic of CLL cells. We examined the effects of a new NF-kappaB inhibitor, dehydroxymethylepoxyquinomicin (DHMEQ), on CLL cells. Dehydroxymethylepoxyquinomicin completely abrogated constitutive NF-kappaB activity and induced apoptosis of CLL cells. Apoptosis induced by DHMEQ was accompanied by downregulation of NF-kappaB-dependent antiapoptotic genes: c-IAP, Bfl-1, Bcl-X(L) and c-FLIP. Dehydroxymethylepoxyquinomicin also inhibited NF-kappaB induced by CD40 and enhanced fludarabine-mediated apoptosis of CLL cells. Results of this study suggest that inhibition of constitutive and inducible NF-kappaB by DHMEQ in combination with fludarabine is a promising strategy for the treatment of CLL."
2043	"Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies with D13S319 show that deletions of 13q14 are common in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In contrast, conventional cytogenetic studies in B-CLL seldom reveal abnormalities of chromosome 13. We hypothesized that chromosome 13 anomalies might not be detected because they are caused by cryptic deletions rather than by the absence of dividing B-CLL cells. To investigate this possibility, we used FISH with D13S319 to study metaphases from 12 patients known to have 13q- by interphase FISH. These same patients had normal chromosomes by conventional cytogenetic studies. As a result of this study, we report evidence that B-CLL metaphases with 13q- are not detected because these deletions are often cryptic and not visible by standard G-banding."
2044	"We reviewed the incidence of diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma and lymphoma in the same patient and analyzed the characteristics of this association. Nine patients in 4 years had the diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and lymphoma, including 2 with Hodgkin disease, 1 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and  3 each with low-grade follicular and intermediate-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). In SEER data, the observed/expected (O/E) ratio of NHL and RCC is 1.86 to  2.07. In our series, 2 patients were diagnosed with NHL after the diagnosis of RCC, 1 was diagnosed concurrently, and in the other 6, lymphoma preceded diagnosis of RCC. In reviews of second malignancies following treatment of Hodgkin disease, RCC is less common (O/E 1.5, with 1/3 being transitional cell carcinoma and 2/3 being adenocarcinoma). We report 2 cases with Hodgkin disease preceding RCC, and in both, Hodgkin disease occurred as an adult. There is a male predominance for patients with both diagnoses, which is greater than the male predominance for either RCC or NHL alone (2.2 vs. 2.0 vs. 1.2). There is an increased likelihood of the lymphoma being extranodal. There is an increased association of RCC and NHL more often among male patients, and often with extranodal lymphoma. Potential common etiological factors include prior treatment for malignancy, genetic predisposition, environmental factors, including a search for viral sequences, and possible immune dysregulation generating the lymphoma and subsequently leading to solid tumors such as RCC or melanoma."
2045	"CONTEXT: Gene expression (GE) analyses using microarrays have become an important part of biomedical and clinical research in hematolymphoid malignancies. However, the methods are time-consuming and costly for routine clinical practice. OBJECTIVES: To review the literature regarding GE data that may provide important information regarding pathogenesis and that may be extrapolated for use in diagnosing and prognosticating lymphomas and leukemias; to present GE findings in Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphomas, acute leukemias, and chronic myeloid leukemia  in detail; and to summarize the practical clinical applications in tables that are referenced throughout the text. DATA SOURCE: PubMed was searched for pertinent literature from 1993 to 2005. CONCLUSIONS: Gene expression profiling of lymphomas and leukemias aids in the diagnosis and prognostication of these diseases. The extrapolation of these findings to more timely, efficient, and cost-effective methods, such as flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry, results in better diagnostic tools to manage  the diseases. Flow cytometric and immunohistochemical applications of the information gained from GE profiling assist in the management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, other low-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas and leukemias, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma, and classic Hodgkin lymphoma. For practical clinical use, GE profiling of precursor B acute lymphoblastic leukemia, precursor T acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and acute myeloid leukemia has supported most of the information that has been obtained by cytogenetic and molecular studies (except for the identification of FLT3 mutations for molecular analysis), but extrapolation of the analyses leaves much to be gained based on the GE profiling data."
2046	"The pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is unknown but may involve aberrant activation of signaling pathways. Somatic hypermutations in rearranged immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IgVH) genes allow a division of CLL patients into 2 categories: mutated IgVH genes are associated with an indolent disease, whereas unmutated IgVH genes define an aggressive form. Using differential display to compare gene expression in CLL cells with and without IgVH hypermutations, we identified a novel gene, CLL up-regulated gene 1 (CLLU1), that was highly up-regulated in CLL cells without IgVH hypermutations. CLLU1 mapped to chromosome 12q22, within a cluster of genes that are active in germinal center B cells. However, appreciable levels of CLLU1 were detectable only in CLL cells and not in a panel of normal tissue extracts or in any other tested hematologic malignancy.  High expression of CLLU1 in CLL samples occurred irrespective of trisomy 12 or large chromosomal rearrangements. CLLU1 encodes 6 mRNAs with no sequence homology to any known gene, and most transcripts appear to be noncoding. Two transcripts,  however, potentially encode a peptide with remarkable structural similarity to human interleukin 4. These data, in particular the unique and restricted expression pattern, suggest that CLLU1 is the first disease-specific gene identified in CLL."
2047	"We recently reported that Swedish VH3-21-using chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients showed restricted immunoglobulin gene features and poor prognosis despite VH mutation status. To investigate this further, we analyzed the VH and VL gene rearrangements in 90 VH3-21+ patients from Sweden, Germany, Italy, United States, Finland, and Australia and correlated these data with survival and other  prognostic markers. Sixty-three percent exhibited mutated VH genes and 37% unmutated VH genes. Fifty (56%) patients displayed a short and homologous heavy-chain CDR3, many of these with the amino acid motif DANGMDV. Also, a highly biased Vlambda2-14 use was evident in 72% of patients with a restricted light-chain CDR3, QVWDS(S/G)SDHPWV. Combined restricted heavy- and light-chain CDR3s were found in patients from all included countries. Although VH3-21+ CLLs have a remarkably predominant lambda expression, analyses of kappa deleting element indicated a conserved light-chain rearrangement order. The overall survival was poor in the VH3-21+ cohort (median survival, 88 months), with no significant difference in relation to mutation status or CDR3 homology. High ZAP-70 and CD38 expression was found in both mutated and unmutated VH3-21+ cases  as well as a slight increase of 11q-aberrations. In summary, highly restricted B-cell receptors and worse outcome characterize VH3-21+ CLLs independent of geographic origin and mutation status."
2048	"A 53-year-old man diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)-small lymphoma following splenectomy was found to have a t(8;14) with an apparent cryptic deletion of the MYC gene. This patient's spleen and bone marrow (BM) showed that 93% and approximately 70% of the viable cells, respectively, were lambda-monoclonal B-cells coexpressing CD5 with CD20, CD19, CD23, CD22, CD38, and low FMC-7. The smear showed a marked increase in small, mature lymphoid cells, with <2% prolymphocytes. The BM karyotype was 46,XY,t(8;14)(q24;q32),-18,+mar[3]/46,XY[27] and FISH analysis with an IGH/MYC green-red dual-fusion signal probe showed an atypical interphase result of one fusion, two green, and one red signal in 70% of the cells. The MYC dual red-green split-apart probe showed the expected t(8;14) pattern in 62% of the cells; however, sequential FISH on a t(8;14) GTG-metaphase showed the single fusion signal on derivative chromosome 8 and only a green signal on der(14) for the IGH/MYC dual-fusion probe and a green signal on der(14), red signal on der(8), and fusion signal on the normal chromosome 8 for the MYC split-apart probe. Thus, the apparently balanced t(8;14) had a cryptic deletion (approximately 1.6 Mb) between the red and the green regions flanking the MYC gene in the MYC split-apart probe, 128,585,631-130,226,339 bp from 8pter. The rarity of t(8;14) in CLL together with a cryptic deletion that probably includes the MYC gene in our CLL patient persuaded us to explore the clinicopathological role of MYC translocations by comparing disease progression in our patient and in other reported CLL cases."
2049	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a low-grade B-lineage lymphoid malignancy. Based  on recent findings, the disease appears to be more heterogeneous than previously  thought. Many cases may require no treatment at all unless patients become symptomatic or develop signs of rapid progression. Even in this setting, treatment is noncurative and is directed at reducing the symptoms. Recently described molecular risk features may help delineate at initial diagnosis which patients will have a more aggressive course. Newer treatment regimens incorporating purine nucleoside analogs and monoclonal antibodies have increased  the rate of molecular complete remissions, which may lead to increased survival.  Reduced intensity conditioning regimens have made the potentially curative modality of allogeneic transplantation more widely available. All of these recent treatments have significant risks of infectious complications, which must be carefully weighed against the risks posed by the underlying disease, and many low-risk asymptomatic patients do not require any treatment. A proposed risk-based treatment algorithm will be discussed."
2050	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The positive regulatory domain I (PRDM1) protein or BLIMP-1, belonging to the PRDM gene family of transcriptional repressors, is a key regulator of terminal differentiation in B-lymphocytes and is critical for plasma cell differentiation. DESIGN AND METHODS: Here we document the expression of PRDM1 in normal and neoplastic lymphoid cells, through the use of a monoclonal antibody that recognizes the molecule in paraffin-embedded tissue sections. A large series of B and T-cell lymphomas (679 cases) was studied, using tissue microarrays. RESULTS: Multiple myeloma, plasmacytoma and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma cases (n=19) were positive. Plasmablastic lymphoma, oral mucosa-type (n=15), were also  found to be positive. PRDM1 protein was expressed in some cases of B-cell neoplasia, i.e. chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (15%), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (43%), classical Hodgkin's lymphoma (41%) and also  in T-cell lymphoma (23%). INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Most B-neoplastic cells showing plasmablastic differentiation were PRDM1-positive. Unexpectedly, a subset of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma expressed PRDM1, lacked detectable plasmablastic or immunoblastic changes and displayed more aggressive behavior, with a shorter failure-free survival. In contrast to normal B-cells, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cases with increased PRDM1 expression co-expressed BCL-6 and MUM1/IRF4, confirming that PRDM1 expression in these tumors is insufficient to drive the full genetic program associated with plasmacytic differentiation."
2052	"Allelic loss of chromosome 8p21-22 is a frequent event in various human cancers including mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), prostate cancer, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and bladder cancer. The tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) receptors, including TNFRSF10A and TNFRSF10B, are located within this chromosomal region. Since recent studies demonstrate that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and prostate cells are TRAIL induced apoptosis, TRAIL-receptors are strong tumor suppressor candidate genes in human cancers exhibiting loss of chromosomal material in 8p21.3. However, no mutation of the TRAIL receptor genes has been reported in CLL, MCL, prostate cancer, HNSCC so far. In this study we analyzed the complete coding region of TNFRSF10A and TNFRSF10B in a series of 32 MCL and 101 CLL samples and detected a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in TNFRSF10A (A683C) with tumor specific allele distribution. We examined allele distribution in 395 samples of different tumor entities (prostate cancer, n = 43; HNSCC, n = 40; bladder cancer, n = 179) and compared them to 137 samples from healthy probands. We found the rare allele of TNFRSF10A is more frequent in CLL, MCL, prostate cancer, bladder cancer and HNSCC. The A683C polymorphism did not cosegregate with other TNFRSF10A polymorphisms previously described. Thus screening for 683A-->C nucleotide exchanges may become important in diagnosis and/or treatment of these malignancies."
2053	"Adiponectin, an adipocyte-secreted hormone, is an important negative regulator in the immune system and hematopoiesis. In this study, we investigated the association of adiponectin levels with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and myeloproliferative diseases (MPDs). We measured adiponectin levels in 19 patients with CLL and 30 patients with MPD (chronic myelogenous leukemia, 15; polycythemia vera, 9; myelofibrosis, 4; essential thrombocythemia, 2). The data were (chronic  myelogenous leukemia, 15; polycythemia vera, 9; myelofibrosis, 4; essential thrombocythemia, 2). The data were compared with results from a control group of  healthy volunteers who were matched according to age, sex, and body mass index. The adiponectin levels in patients with CLL were lower than in the controls (4.71 +/- 1.33 microg/mL versus 16.61 +/- 3.91 microg/mL; P <.001). They were also significantly lower in patients with MPD than in the controls (8.95 +/- 1.33 microg/mL versus 16.16 +/- 4.77 microg/mL; P <.001). In addition, we compared the adiponectin levels of MPD patients who were treated with interferon (IFN) to the  levels of patients who were not treated with IFN. Adipnectin levels were significantly higher in IFN-treated patients (11.03 +/- 1.39 microg/mL versus 6.87 +/- 1.79 microg/mL; P <.001). These results suggest that lymphopoiesis and myelopoiesis negatively influence adiponectin levels. Adiponectin may be related  to inflammatory cytokine release. IFN therapy appears to have a positive influence on adiponectin secretion by suppressing inflammatory cytokines. Future  studies are needed to prove causality and to provide insight about this hormone's mechanism of action and its potential role regarding the etiology and progression of CLL and MPD."
2054	"Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) is a unique cellular enzyme that can  trigger point mutations and chromosomal translocations, both of which potentially disturb normal cellular metabolism and affect cancer initiation and progression.  The involvement of AID in the progression of leukemia has been suggested by multiple groups on the basis of observations of the statistical correlation between AID expression and a poor prognosis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The fact that ectopic expression of AID in mice results in tumors of the lung and T-lymphocytes suggests an oncogenic role for AID. The inducible nature of AID expression indicates that AID might be induced and cause oncogenic  mutations, even in epithelial tissues, where AID expression is absent or very weak under normal conditions. If AID can be induced in epithelial cells by inflammatory signals, as from B-lymphocytes, it may be involved in various pathologic conditions, including inflammation-and infection-associated cancers, for which the molecular mechanism is largely unknown, despite the clinical significance of these diseases."
2055	"B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells express several members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family, such as CD40L, CD30L, and TRAIL. By using the cDNA  microarray technology, B-CLL samples were found to overexpress receptor activator of nuclear factor kB (NF-kB) ligand (RANKL), as compared to normal CD19(+) B cells. These findings were validated at the protein level by Western blot and flow cytometry analyses. Moreover, unlike primary normal B cells, leukemic B-CLL  cells showed surface expression of RANK, the cognate transmembrane receptor of RANKL. When added in vitro to B-CLL cultures, either alone or in association with chlorambucil or fludarabine, recombinant RANKL did not significantly modulate cell viability, and it minimally affected the IL-8 expression/release. On the other hand, treatment with RANK-Fc chimera potently upregulated the release of IL-8 in the B-CLL culture supernatants, suggesting involvement of reverse signaling through transmembrane RANKL in IL-8 induction. In turn, exposure of B-CLL cells to recombinant IL-8 significantly decreased spontaneous apoptosis as  well as chlorambucil- and fludarabine-mediated cytoxicity in B-CLL cells. Since IL-8 has been implicated in progression of B-CLL disease, our findings suggest that, by upregulating IL-8, the RANKL/RANK system may contribute to the pathogenesis of B-CLL."
2056	"PURPOSE: Purine analogs and alkylators are important agents for treating chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Early studies combining fludarabine and chlorambucil  were abandoned owing to increased toxicity from overlapping myelosuppression and  immunosuppression. Of the purine analogs active in CLL, pentostatin appears to be the least myelosuppressive. We previously reported that pentostatin and cyclophosphamide (PC) is active and well-tolerated in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL. Subsequently, we added rituximab, and now report on this three-drug combination. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We treated 46 patients with either previously treated CLL (32 patients) or other low-grade B-cell neoplasms (14 patients). Patients received pentostatin 4 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2, and rituximab 375 mg/m2 (PCR). All drugs were administered on the same day (rituximab omitted from cycle  1), and patients received six cycles at 3-week intervals. Filgrastim, sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, and acyclovir were administered prophylactically. RESULTS: The median age was 62 years (range, 30 to 80 years). The median number of prior regimens was two (range, one to seven). For CLL patients, there were 24  responses (75%), including eight complete responses (25%). In fludarabine-refractory patients, 75% responded. Toxicity was acceptable, with grade 3/4 infections (including fever of unknown origin) in 28%. The regimen was  well tolerated, with 72% of patients receiving the planned treatment at full dose. CONCLUSION: PCR is safe and effective in previously treated patients with CLL. In comparison with our prior two-drug regimen, we find that rituximab did not seem to add significantly to the toxicity, but did appear to confer a survival advantage. Based on these results, we are currently studying PCR as initial therapy for patients with CLL."
2057	"We describe a case of severe reactivation of occult hepatitis B virus infection in a 49-year-old man, who was treated with high doses of chlorambucil for a Binet stage A B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). The patient was initially treated with lamivudine and subsequently with lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil combination therapy to control viral replication and allow for long-term anti-cancer chemotherapy with alemtuzumab (Campath-1H), which was introduced to rescue for a B-CLL relapse. During 20 months of anti-HBV therapy, ALT and HBV-DNA levels progressively declined and B-CLL was successfully kept under control by long-term alemtuzumab administration."
2058	"The Z-138 cell line, reported in the journal in 1998, was derived from a patient  who developed a leukemia initially classified as chronic lymphocytic leukemia in  1987. Splenectomy for massive involvement was required in 1998 and the neoplasm subsequently transformed to an aggressive, mature B-cell leukemia 2 years later.  At time of transformation, the neoplasm had a complex karyotype, including the t(11;14)(q13;q32). In light of the extensive updates in lymphoma classification that have occurred since that time, we reviewed the slides of the patient's neoplasm. The initial peripheral blood and bone marrow aspirate smears and the spleen were involved by numerous small lymphocytes with mature chromatin. The last bone marrow specimen was involved by slightly larger, irregular lymphocytes  with immature chromatin and a high mitotic rate. Immunohistochemical analysis performed on the spleen and last bone marrow for this report showed that the neoplastic cells over-expressed cyclin D1. According to the criteria of the current World Health Organization lymphoma classification, this neoplasm is best  classified as mantle cell lymphoma, with blastoid transformation present in the terminal phase of disease."
2059	"We compared antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotides (PS-ODN) that target BCL-2 such as Genasense (G3139-PS), with other PS-ODN or phosphodiester-ODN (PO-ODN) in their relative capacity to induce apoptosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells in vitro. Surprisingly, we found that thymidine-containing PS-ODN, but not PO-ODN, induced activation and apoptosis of CLL cells independent of BCL-2 antisense sequence or CpG motifs. All tested thimidine-containing PS-ODN, irrespective of their primary sequences, reduced the expression of Bcl-2  protein and increased the levels of the proapoptotic molecules p53, Bid, Bax in CLL cells. Apoptosis induced by thymidine-containing PS-ODN was preceded by cellular activation, could be blocked by the tyrosine-kinase inhibitor imatinib mesylate (Gleevec), and was dependent on ABL kinase. We conclude that thymidine-containing PS-ODN can activate CLL cells and induce apoptosis via a mechanism that is independent of BCL-2 gene interference or CpG motifs."
2060	"ZAP-70 tyrosine kinase is involved in signalling pathways following T-cell receptor stimulation and was originally described only in T cells and natural killer cells. ZAP-70 expression has been reported in normal mouse B lineage cells and in human malignant B lymphocytes, mainly in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) where it correlates with clinical outcome. We analyzed several B-cell lines and ex vivo malignant B cells, ranging from acute lymphoblastic leukemia to multiple myeloma and reflecting different stages of B-cell differentiation, and they showed ZAP-70 expression regardless their maturation stage. We then analyzed by Western blot and flow cytometry different human normal B-lymphocyte subpopulations: naïve, germinal center and memory B cells from tonsils, CD19+ CD5+ cells from cord blood and CD19+ lymphocytes from peripheral blood. All expressed ZAP-70 protein, though at different levels depending on their differentiation, activation and tissue localization. In addition, ZAP-70 expression levels could be modulated following stimulation via the B-cell receptor. These findings implicate a potential role of ZAP-70 in the signalling pathway of B lymphocytes at different maturational stages, indicate that ZAP-70 expression is not a CLL-specific feature among B-cell malignancies and suggest that the absence of ZAP-70 rather than its presence should be considered abnormal for malignant B lymphocytes."
2061	"17-Allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG) is a new anticancer agent currently in clinical trials. The ability of 17-AAG to abrogate the function of heat-shock protein Hsp90 and modulate cellular sensitivity to anticancer agents has prompted recent research to use this compound in drug combination therapy. Here we report that 17-AAG has striking opposite effects on the activity of arsenic trioxide (ATO) and ara-C. Combination of 17-AAG with ATO exhibited a synergistic effect in leukemia cells, whereas coincubation of 17-AAG and ara-C showed antagonistic activity. Mechanistic studies revealed that ATO exerted cytotoxic action by reactive oxygen species generation, and activated Akt survival pathway. 17-AAG abrogated Akt activation and enhanced the activity of ATO. In contrast, treatment of leukemia cells with 17-AAG caused a G1 arrest, a decrease in DNA synthesis and reduced ara-C incorporation into DNA, leading to antagonism. The ability of 17-AAG to enhance the antileukemia activity of ATO was further demonstrated in primary leukemia cells isolated from patients with acute  myeloid leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, including cells from refractory patients. Our data suggest that combination of 17-AAG and ATO may be an effective therapeutic regimen. Caution should be exercised in using 17-AAG together with ara-C, as their combination effects are schedule dependent."
2063	"Phosphorylation analysis of signaling proteins is key for examining intracellular signaling pathways. Conventional biochemical approaches, e.g. immunoprecipitation, Western blot, and ELISA, have played a major role in elucidation of individual signaling events. However, these methods are laborious, time-consuming, and difficult to adapt for high throughput analysis. A multiplex  approach to measure phosphorylation state of multiple signaling proteins simultaneously would significantly enhance the efficiency and scope of signaling  pathway analysis for mechanistic studies and clinical application. This report describes a novel multiplex microbead suspension array approach to examine phosphoproteomic profiles in lymphoid cells. In the Jurkat T-cell leukemia line,  the multiplex assay enabled targeted investigation of phosphorylation kinetics of signal transduction from receptor proximal events (tyrosine phosphoproteins CD3,  Lck, Zap-70, and linker for T-cell activation) to cytosolic events (serine/threonine phosphoproteins Erk and Akt) to transcription factors (serine/threonine phosphorylated Rsk, cyclic AMP-response element-binding protein, and STAT3). To broaden the application of the multiplex analysis, signaling pathways were also studied in B-cell lymphoid tumor lines that included chronic lymphocytic leukemia lines. In these cell lines, multiplex suspension array enabled phosphoproteomic analysis of signaling cascade mediated by Syk, a homolog of Zap-70. Results obtained by multiplex analysis were confirmed by immunoprecipitation and Western blot methods. The examples of T-cell and B-cell signaling pathway analyses in this report demonstrate the utility of the multiplex suspension arrays to investigate phosphorylation dynamics and kinetics  of several signaling proteins simultaneously in signal transduction pathways."
2064	"BACKGROUND: So far, only 9 cases of minimal change glomerulonephritis (MCGN) related to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have been described. CASE REPORT: Our patient presented with severe nephrotic syndrome. Diagnostic biopsies confirmed MCGN and early-stage BCLL (Binet A). In contrast to previously described cases, kappa monoclonal IgM and cryoglobulins were also detected. The patient was treated with chlorambucil and prednisone. 3 weeks later, renal function and white blood cell (WBC) count were completely normal. DISCUSSION: Although, in most cases, renal disease and CLL present separately, there is evidence for a causal relationship between the two disorders. Although it is widely approved that early-stage CLL should not be treated by medication, the severe nephrotic syndrome in our patient required immediate intervention. So  far, there is no standard therapy for MCGN associated with CLL. Our combination therapy resulted in normalization of the nephrotic syndrome and the WBC count. Hence, we emphasize the importance of early recognition of renal symptoms in CLL  and propose a successful therapy for nephrotic syndrome in MCGN associated with early-stage B-CLL. Additionally, the pathophysiological and therapeutic aspects of MCGN associated with CLL are retrospectively discussed."
2066	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a clonal malignancy characterized  by the expansion of small B lymphocytes and accumulation of CLL cells. This disease is the most common form of leukemia in the Western hemisphere and is currently not considered to be curable using currently available therapies. Published reports have suggested that purine analogues have activity in B-CLL and superior to alkylating agents. Even though responses have been observed with purine analogues that are used as single agents, these responses were not durable. The use of combination purine analogue therapy with alkylating agents and/or monoclonal antibodies was then explored in order to take advantage of synergistic actions of these agents to improve the quality of clinical responses. Both fludarabine and pentostatin have shown improved responses when combined with alkylating agents and even higher overall and complete responses (CRs) when combined with monoclonal antibodies."
2067	"A dramatic change has occurred in the management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL) over the past 20 years. The use of newer therapies, including the purine analogues, has resulted in higher frequencies of response. Combination therapy with purine analogues, alkylators, and/or monoclonal antibodies represents a promising new approach to the treatment of patients with CLL. The most commonly studied regimens have utilized fludarabine, but severe myelosuppression and immunosuppression of these combinations require close attention to dosing and schedule. Of the purine analogues that show activity in CLL, pentostatin appears  to be the least myelosuppressive. These combination strategies are associated with high-quality responses in the majority of patients and may one day lead to improved survival or possibly even a cure for patients with CLL."
2068	"Nonmyeloablative stem cell transplants provide a viable therapeutic option for older patients or patients with comorbid conditions, who were previously deemed to be ineligible for transplantation. Despite improvements in clinical outcomes,  graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) remains a significant and potentially lethal complication. One approach by which GVHD has been managed is through introduction of new agents, such as alemtuzumab, into the conditioning regimen. Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that targets the CD52 antigen, which is highly expressed on both B and T lymphocytes. By depleting T cells in both the donor and the recipient, alemtuzumab has been shown to prevent development of both acute and chronic GVHD, without inhibiting the benefits associated with the graft-versus-leukemia effect. Clinical trials have shown that alemtuzumab is able to decrease the incidence of acute and chronic GVHD without impairing engraftment. Furthermore, in chronic lymphocytic leukemia therapy, alemtuzumab has been shown to purge malignant cells from the host to allow for harvesting for the purpose of autologous transplantation. Despite results showing that alemtuzumab can play an important role in managing GVHD, little information is available regarding a standardized dosing schedule. Greater insight into alemtuzumab's pharmacokinetic activity would assist in developing a schedule that can optimize alemtuzumab-mediated T-cell depletion to prevent GVHD, while retaining sufficient host T-cell activity to encourage the graft-versus-leukemia  effect and prevent relapse."
2069	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia has traditionally been treated with alkylating agents and purine analogues. The introduction of alemtuzumab, a CD52 monoclonal antibody with significant clinical activity in chemotherapy refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, is accompanied by a side effect profile different from that resulting from chemotherapy. The intravenous administration of alemtuzumab is usually accompanied by transient infusion-related side effects  manifesting primarily as flu-like symptoms. These reactions can be reduced by use of corticosteroid prophylaxis, and will subside gradually during continued treatment. Alternatively, administration of alemtuzumab subcutaneously may markedly reduce the occurrence of general side effects but results in limited transient local skin reactions in most patients. Neutropenia (grade 4) may occur  in approximately 20% of patients, but is usually transient and/or responds promptly to colony stimulating factor therapy; episodes of febrile neutropenia are infrequent. The major side effect of alemtuzumab is T-cell depletion, leading to an increased risk of infection, in particular reactivation of cytomegalovirus. This event typically occurs 3 to 8 weeks after initiation of therapy, coinciding  with the T-cell nadir. With vigilance and early detection, these infections are usually manageable and do not cause organ failure. Preliminary data indicate that other infections following alemtuzumab therapy do not seem to occur at a frequency that is higher than expected, probably because of the general prophylactic use of cotrimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) and valacyclovir in combination with clinical tumor regressions. The overall safety profile of alemtuzumab appears to be beneficial in relation to disease severity and prognosis in patients with fludarabine-refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic  leukemia."
2070	"Lymphoproliferative disorders are characterized by the abnormal accumulation of aberrant lymphocytes, which frequently interfere with the processes associated with immunologic response and hematopoiesis. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has traditionally been considered indolent, with a prolonged clinical course. However, a large proportion of patients with CLL have severe symptoms, a poor prognosis, and often require more immediate treatment of their leukemia. Over the last 5 years, technology has transformed the approach to treating patients with CLL. Molecular markers are now available that characterize patients with poor-risk disease who may benefit from earlier or more aggressive therapeutic intervention. Biological markers have also been identified that assist in predicting responses to specific agents and may help select an effective therapeutic approach. The advent of more targeted monoclonal antibody therapies,  used in combination with chemotherapy regimens or as monotherapy, has the potential to eradicate disease to a point of undetectability by the most sensitive tests available, thereby possibly extending the goal of therapy to include a cure. Because recent data have shown that achieving minimal residual disease (MRD) in the bone marrow is one of the most important factors in predicting duration of remission, MRD may be an appropriate therapeutic end point for patients with poor-risk CLL. The use of rituximab with the cytotoxic agents cyclophosphamide and fludarabine has achieved complete remission with no detectable CLL, as assessed by MRD techniques in a significant proportion of previously untreated and previously treated CLL patients. Monotherapy with alemtuzumab has also been shown to achieve a complete response with undetectable  MRD in patients with relapsed/refractory disease. This article reviews recent advances in identifying patients who have poor-risk disease and explores the potential importance of MRD status as an outcome measure of CLL therapy."
2071	"In the last 10 years purine analogs have become the chemotherapy of choice for the first-line treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, principally because of  their superior efficacy compared with alkylating agents. However, many patients experience a relapse after an initial response or become refractory to these agents. The introduction of immunotherapeutic agents has provided renewed hope for fludarabine-refractory patients. Several clinical trials have shown the efficacy of alemtuzumab in patients with fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia, including those with poor prognostic factors. Current studies indicate that treatment with alemtuzumab can achieve remissions with undetectable residual disease, as assessed by highly sensitive methods such as quantitative polymerase chain reaction or 4-color flow cytometry. These results suggest new applications for alemtuzumab such as combination treatment with chemotherapeutics or immunotherapeutics, maintenance therapy, and in vivo bone marrow purging prior to transplantation. A number of clinical trials are under way assessing the role of alemtuzumab in these settings."
2072	"For decades, chemotherapy was the only available approach for patients with advanced lymphoid malignancies. Treatment paradigms were dramatically altered by  the availability of novel and active targeted agents, particularly the monoclonal antibodies, alemtuzumab and rituximab. These agents are now playing an increasingly important role in the treatment of lymphoid malignancies. Alemtuzumab is being used earlier in the course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in patients with a more intact immune system, when it is likely to have its greatest activity. The immunosuppressive properties of monoclonal antibodies are  also being explored in the stem cell transplant setting, including in vivo purging and, with alemtuzumab, for the management of graft-versus-host disease. Rituximab has become ubiquitous in the treatment of most B-cell malignancies. Further research with this antibody is focused on optimizing its use and determining its role in each of the relevant disease states. In addition, newer antibodies are in development for treating chronic lymphocytic leukemia and other B-cell malignancies. New treatment regimens, including combinations of monoclonal antibodies, could enhance complete response rates and prolong progression-free survival, perhaps eventually improving our ability to cure patients with lymphoid malignancies."
2073	"Richter's syndrome (RS) is characterized by the development of high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma. At The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center the incidence of RS is 3.9%. The large cells of RS may arise through transformation of the original CLL clone or represent a new neoplasm. RS may be triggered by viral infections, such as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Trisomy 12 and chromosome 11 abnormalities, as well as multiple genetic defects, have been described in patients with RS. These abnormalities may cause CLL cells to proliferate and, by facilitating the acquisition of new genetic abnormalities, to transform into RS cells. The therapeutic strategies for RS typically include therapies developed for NHL or acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The reported response rates with these therapies are 5% to 43%, and the median survival duration ranges from 5 to 8 months. The median overall survival duration at our institution of patients with RS is 9.1 months (95% confidence interval, 7.8 to 11 months), and the median failure-free survival duration is 7.1 months (95% confidence interval, 5.1 to 10.4 months). Patients appear to benefit from cytoreductive therapy consisting of chemotherapy and immunotherapy, followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation, as postremission therapy. As part of a program aiming to cure RS, we are currently conducting a clinical trial of oxaliplatin, fludarabine, and cytarabine in combination with rituximab and recommend postremission therapy, including allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with available donors."
2074	"Infectious complications continue to be one of the major causes of morbidity and  mortality in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The pathogenesis of infections in these patients is multifactorial. Hypogammaglobulinemia is an important predisposing factor for infection in patients with early-stage disease  and for those treated with conventional alkylating agents. However, the proportion of patients treated with purine analogs and monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab and alemtuzumab is increasing. As a result of this therapy, these patients often experience profound and sustained T-cell immunodeficiency. Consequently, the spectrum of organisms causing infections in these patients is changing from common bacterial organisms to less common opportunistic pathogens such as Pneumocystis, Listeria, mycobacteria, herpesviruses, and Candida. This review focuses on the pathogenesis and risk factors for infections in patients with CLL, the spectrum of infectious organisms associated with the newer agents,  and the management of these infections with an emphasis on prophylaxis and vaccination strategies."
2075	"Autoimmune complications are common in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), occurring in up to a quarter of all patients during the course of the illness. By far the most common manifestation is autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), followed by immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). It is not true to say that autoimmunity is confined to the formed elements of the blood since conditions such as paraneoplastic pemphigus and acquired angioedema do occur in CLL, but nonhematologic autoimmunity is very rare indeed. The pathogenesis of autoimmunity in CLL is unknown. It may be related to the ability of the CLL cells to act as antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and to process antigen (particularly the Rh protein) so as to reveal cryptic peptides that are seen as foreign by helper T cells. It is likely that a failure of regulatory T-cell function is also involved. Autoimmune episodes may be triggered by treatment, particularly with purine analogues. Such episodes are often severe and may be fatal. Treatment of CLL-associated autoimmunity follows conventional protocols, but non-response to primary treatments is not uncommon. Promising results have been obtained with cyclosporine and rituximab."
2076	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) would appear to be an ideal target of T-cell-mediated responses against the cancer cell. The cancer arises in cells that can act as antigen-presenting cells (APCs), CLL cells express tumor antigens, and the cells can be a target of the allogeneic T cells in a graft-versus-leukemia effect. Despite these potential benefits, immune responses  against CLL cells have been difficult to elicit. CLL induces immune defects in the host, the tumor cells are inefficient APCs, and therapies given to patients with CLL are themselves immunosuppressive. Successful vaccination approaches in this disease will require steps to overcome these difficulties, including steps to improve the immune defects in this disease, identification of the targets of the immune response to monitor immunologic responses, and improved presentation of antigen."
2077	"There are several initial therapies available for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) that offer extended disease-free or treatment-free survival time. However,  once patients relapse, particularly after fludarabine-based therapy, treatment choices have remained limited. Newer therapies have now become available, including alemtuzumab, fludarabine-based combinations, rituximab, methylprednisolone, alternative nucleoside analogs, flavopirodol, lenalidomide, signal transduction inhibitors/small molecules, and new monoclonal antibodies. We discuss selection of therapy for the relapsed patient using risk stratification and the role of clinical research in continuing to pursue therapeutic advances against CLL."
2078	"Evolution of frontline treatment for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been driven by the objective of increasing complete remission (CR) rates and achieving maximum elimination of leukemia. As a result, effective combination regimens incorporating new agents such as monoclonal antibodies have  been developed. Beyond morphologic CR, evaluation for residual disease by multicolor flow cytometry or molecular techniques may provide a tool to assess potentially more effective therapies. Although new prognostic factors correlate with time to treatment and survival have been identified, the utility of these factors in predicting response rates or response duration has not been established. Clearly, strides have been made in developing effective treatments that are improving remission duration with the ultimate goal of improving survival for patients with CLL. Herein, we review the recent progress in frontline therapies for patients with CLL."
2079	"The role of inherited genetic factors in the etiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (LPDs) is now well  established. Significant familial aggregation of CLL and B-cell LPDs has been demonstrated, but the mode of inheritance is unknown. Identifying genes that when mutated confer an increased risk of these diseases is of immediate clinical relevance in terms of primary and secondary interventions. Furthermore, their identification provides for a greater understanding of the mechanisms of B-cell tumorigenesis in general. Here we review the current status of knowledge relating to inherited susceptibility to CLL and the strategies that are being employed to  identify disease-causing mutations."
2080	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) follows an extremely variable clinical course  with survival ranging from months to decades. Available treatments can often induce remissions, but eventually all patients relapse. Recently, there has been  major progress in the identification of molecular and cellular markers that may predict the tendency for disease progression in patients with CLL. Genomic aberrations, the mutational profile of IgVH genes and its surrogate marker ZAP-70 expression, and serum markers like B2-microglobulin (beta2-MG) and thymidine kinase (TK) provide prognostic information for individual patients independently  of clinical disease characteristics. These molecular markers are about to enter the stage of risk stratification for individual patients in clinical trials."
2081	"Angiogenesis has been found to be an important regulator in the growth and metastasis of solid tumors. More recent studies have also demonstrated the importance of this biologic process in normal hematopoietic cell development and  the pathophysiology of several hematologic malignancies. This review provides an  overview of the clinical and biologic importance of angiogenesis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Patients with CLL have detectable levels of both plasma and cellular pro- and anti-angiogenic cytokines, as well as abnormal neovascularization in the marrow and lymph nodes. Recent evidence suggests a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-based autocrine pathway promotes the survival of CLL B cells in part through upregulation of anti-apoptotic proteins.  Additionally, interactions between CLL B cells and their microenvironment generate alterations in the secretion of angiogenic factors that result in enhanced leukemic B-cell resistance to apoptotic cell death. From a clinical standpoint, interpatient variation is observed in markers of angiogenesis and appears to have prognostic implications. Several clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of anti-angiogenic agents for treatment of patients with CLL are underway with promising preliminary results. Additional research is needed to identify the regulation of aberrant and critical angiogenic pathways in CLL B cells, to determine how angiogenic markers can be used to improve prognostication for CLL patients, and to explore how the angiogenic characteristics of CLL B cells can best be manipulated for therapeutic benefit."
2082	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most frequent leukemia in adults in the Western world, is characterized by predominantly nondividing malignant CD5+ B cells overexpressing the anti-apoptotic Bcl2 protein. Significant familial aggregation with largely unknown mode of inheritance has been demonstrated. Until recently little else was known regarding the events leading to CLL initiation and progression. New findings support the view that CLL is a genetic disease where the main alterations occur at the level of transcriptional/post-transcriptional regulation of the malignant cells genome because of deregulations of a new class  of genes named microRNAs (miRNAs). miRNA genes miR-15a and miR-16-1, located at 13q14.3, are frequently deleted and/or downregulated in patients with B-cell CLL. Both microRNAs negatively regulate Bcl2 at a post-transcriptional level and this  repression is enough to induce apoptosis. Therefore, miR-15 and miR-16 are natural antisense Bcl2 interactors that could be used for therapy of Bcl2-overexpressing tumors. Furthermore, microRNA expression profiles can distinguish normal B cells from malignant B cells in CLL. A unique microRNA signature is associated with prognostic factors such as mutations in the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region gene (IgV(H)) or high expression of the 70-kd zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70+) and disease progression in CLL. Mutations in miRNA transcripts are frequent, some of them germ-line, and may have functional importance and may predispose to CLL and to a spectrum of associated malignancies."
2083	"Enormous evidence has accumulated in the past decades that establishes the importance of epigenetic modifications in cancer and has resulted in shifting the focus from entirely genetic-based studies to integrated studies involving both genetic and epigenetic alterations. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is one such example where studies involving epigenetic aberrations have accelerated the  search for affected genes, which was initially restricted to commonly deleted chromosomal regions. Many novel genes that are epigenetically silenced in CLL have been identified. Advances in the understanding of post-translational histone modifications and DNA methylation in normal and in CLL cells have proven to be extremely beneficial in finding powerful diagnostic markers, as well as in exploring novel therapies. At present, the field of epigenetics is at an evolving stage, but there is no doubt that further unraveling of its cause and effects in  transformed cells will bring a new revolution in cancer therapeutics."
2084	"An immunobiologic approach has led to substantial changes in our current view of  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Several questions remain unsolved and the definition of the cell origin of CLL is still prominent. The presence of somatic  mutations of IGHV genes indicates that, at least in a portion of cases, CLL cells had encountered an antigen during the natural history of the disease. Unmutated (UM) cases show a remarkable skewing in IGHV gene usage. In addition, all CLL cases, both mutated (M) and UM, show a common surface phenotype which is significantly activated and similar to the surface phenotype of antigen (Ag)-experienced B cells. The properties of CLL B-cell receptors (BCR) resemble those observed in normal B cells upon Ag interaction, and gene profiling analyses revealed that both subsets share striking similarities with the so-called memory  B cells. The detailed analyses of the complementary determining region 3 (CDR3) sequences of the leukemic immunoglobulin (Ig) receptors showed that unrelated patients in different parts of the world express very similar if not identical BCR. Remarkably, similar V(H)DJ(H) rearrangements have been identified in both UM- and M-CLL, suggesting an antigenic selection in both subsets of the disease.  From all this evidence, the concept has arisen that the cell of origin, regardless its mutational status, has to be "an Ag-experienced" B cell that gives rise to a malignant clone that appears to be more dynamic than previously appreciated and whose progression is favored by a number of molecular and cellular interactions that occur in tissues."
2085	"BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Total-body irradiation (TBI) is a key part of the conditioning regimen before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). The exact role of TBI as part of the conditioning regimen is largely unclear. In order to determine the relevance of TBI, the status of TBI utilization was analyzed on the basis of a nationwide registry. MATERIAL AND METHODS: 14,371 patients (1998-2002) documented in the German Stem Cell Transplantation Registry (DRST) were analyzed regarding TBI utilization prior to autologous or allogeneic transplantation, underlying disorder, type of donor, stem cell source, and size of the treatment center. RESULTS: For autologous HSCT approximately 10% of the patients (873/8,167) received TBI, with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL, approximately 80%, 171/214) and low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (l-NHL, approximately 35%, 330/929) being the most important disorders. In the allogeneic setting 50% of the patients (2,399/4,904) received TBI, with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL, 85%, 794/930),  acute myeloid leukemia (AML, 45%, 662/1,487) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML, 49%, 561/1,156) being the key indications. The type of donor, stem cell source and center size did not strongly influence the use of TBI. CONCLUSION: TBI has only a limited role for the conditioning prior to autologous  HCST. For allogeneic HSCT TBI is widely accepted with no major changes over the observation time. The use of TBI is generally accepted for ALL, whereas approximately half of the patients with CML or AML received TBI. Although a considerably large database was analyzed, no clear determinants for the use of TBI could be distinguished."
2087	"PURPOSE: To determine the origin and relationship of the rare IgG+ variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to the two common IgM+IgD+ subsets that are distinguished by expression of unmutated or mutated V(H) genes, with the former having a worse prognosis. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: IgG+ CLL cells were characterized using phenotypic, functional, and immunogenetic analyses. RESULTS: IgG+ CLL was phenotypically similar to mutated IgM+IgD+ CLL (M-CLL) and  variably expressed CD38 (4 of 14). ZAP-70, a tyrosine kinase preferentially expressed in unmutated CLL, was found in only 2 of 14 cases. The ability to signal via surface IgM (sIgM) varies between the main subsets of CLL and is associated with expression of ZAP-70. In IgG(+) CLL, 9 of 14 responded to engagement of sIgG with no apparent requirement for expression of CD38 or ZAP-70. However, signal capacity correlated with intensity of sIgG expression. Most switched immunoglobulin variable region genes were somatically mutated without intraclonal variation, and no case expressed activation-induced cytidine deaminase. Derivation from a postgerminal center B cell is, therefore, likely, and a relationship with M-CLL is suggested. This is supported by a shared biased  usage of the V4-34 gene. Similar bias in normal B cells developed with age, providing an expanded population for transforming events. However, conserved sequences detected in the CDR3 of V4-34-encoded gamma chains were not found M-CLL, indicating no direct path of isotype switch from M-CLL. CONCLUSION: IgG+ CLL is likely to arise from an age-related expanded pool of B cells, on a path parallel to M-CLL, and perhaps with a similar clinical course."
2088	"The proteasome pathway is an important target for anticancer drug development. Here, we identify the antialcoholism drug disulfiram and its analogue pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) as inhibitors of the 26S proteasome activity in a cell-based screening assay. As expected for proteasome inhibitors, these compounds also inhibited TNF-alpha-induced nuclear factor-KappaB (NF-KappaB) translocation and were cytotoxic. Disulfiram was more cytotoxic against chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells compared to peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)  at clinically achievable concentrations. Proteasome and NF-KappaB inhibition were achieved with a potency in the same range as that of the clinically used proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. Disulfiram was also able to induce accumulation  of p27(Kip1) and to prolong the half-life of c-Myc, both targets for proteasome-dependent degradation. It is concluded that the previously observed antitumoral and NF-KappaB inhibiting activity of disulfiram and PDTC could be attributed to their inhibition of the 26S proteasome."
2089	"The innate ability of B lymphoma cells to escape control by tumor-reactive T cells must be overcome to develop effective immunotherapies for these diseases. Because signals from both the innate and adaptive immune systems direct the acquisition of strong immunogenicity by professional APCs, the effects of IL-2 and the TLR-7 agonist, S28690, on the immunogenic properties of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells were studied. IL-2 with S28690 caused CLL cells to proliferate and increased their expression of B7-family members, production of TNF-alpha and IL-10, and levels of tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT-1 and STAT-3 proteins. S28690 increased CD25 expression on CLL cells and sensitized them to IL-2 signaling. However, IL-2 did not change TLR-7 expression or signaling in CLL cells. The ability to stimulate T cell proliferation required additional activation of protein kinase C, which inhibited tumor cell proliferation, "switched off" IL-10 production, and caused essentially all CLL cells (regardless of clinical stage) to acquire a CD83(high)CD80(high)CD86(high)CD54(high) surface phenotype marked by the activation of STAT-1 without STAT-3. These findings suggest that TLR-7 "licenses" human B cells to respond to cytokines of the adaptive immune system (such as IL-2) and provide a strategy to increase the immunogenicity of lymphoma cells for therapeutic purposes."
2090	"Infection of human monocyte-derived macrophages with Mycobacterium tuberculosis at low multiplicities of infection leads 48-72 h after the infection to cell death with the characteristics of apoptosis or necrosis. Predominant induction of one or the other cell death modality depends on differences in mitochondrial membrane perturbation induced by attenuated and virulent strains. Infection of macrophages with the attenuated H37Ra or the virulent H37Rv causes mitochondrial  outer membrane permeabilization characterized by cytochrome c release from the mitochondrial intermembrane space and apoptosis. Mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization is transient, peaks 6 h after infection, and requires Ca(2+) flux and B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 2-associated protein X translocation into mitochondria. In contrast, only the virulent H37Rv induces significant mitochondrial transmembrane potential (Deltapsi(m)) loss caused by mitochondrial permeability transition. Dissipation of Deltapsi(m) also peaks at 6 h after infection, is transient, is inhibited by the classical mitochondrial permeability transition inhibitor cyclosporine A, has a requirement for mitochondrial Ca(2+) loading, and is independent of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma translocation into the mitochondria. Transient dissipation of Deltapsi(m) 6 h after infection is essential for the induction of macrophage necrosis by Mtb, a mechanism that allows further dissemination of the pathogen and development of the disease."
2091	"Deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) and deoxyguanosine kinase (dGK) catalyze the first step in the intracellular cascade of fludarabine (2-fluoroadenine-beta-D-arabinofuranoside) and cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine) phosphorylation, which leads to activation of these prodrugs, commonly used for treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Thus, resistance to nucleoside analogues may primarily be due to low levels of deoxynucleoside kinase activity. The purpose of this study was to investigate the activity profiles of dCK and dGK and characterize the possible relationship between the levels of dCK enzymatic activities and mRNA levels in B-CLL cells from untreated patient samples in an attempt to determine the best approach for predicting sensitivity to nucleoside analogues and thereby optimizing treatment of CLL. For this purpose, dCK and dGK analyses were done in blood cells from 59 untreated symptomatic patients with CLL. The dGK activity towards 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine was significantly lower than of dCK (median 73 pmol/mg protein/min (85-121, 95% CI) versus 353 pmol/mg protein/min (331-421)). The median dCK mRNA level was 0.107 (0.096-0.120, 95% CI). There was a lack of correlation between the activities of dCK and dGK, which indicates that these proteins are regulated independently. We also found that the dCK and dGK activity measurement towards their endogenous substrates were comparable to the nucleoside analogues tested. Such variations in enzyme activities and mRNA levels may well explain differences in clinical responses to treatment. There was no correlation  between the levels of dCK mRNAs and enzymatic activities using a quantitative real-time PCR procedure. Sequencing of dCK mRNA did not reveal alternate splicing or mutations in the coding region. The relation between activity and mRNA levels  was studied by short interfering RNA (siRNA) method, which showed that in the siRNA treated cells the down-regulation of dCK expression, and activity followed  each other. However, in control cells the mRNA levels remained stable but the protein activity markedly decreased. These data demonstrate that the dCK activity is not reflected by dCK mRNA expression that indicates a post-translational mechanism(s)."
2092	"Polyoma (BK) virus-type cellular changes are occasionally reported in urine specimens, yet rarely detected in histologic sections of bladder biopsies. A total of 762 predominantly voided urine specimens with a cytologic diagnosis of polyoma virus-type change were retrieved from the cytopathology files of the Johns Hopkins Hospital over a 15-year period (1988-2003). Biopsies were available for 33 cases (29 patients) following or preceding the urinary cytology (mean interval, 210 days). The biopsies originated primarily from bladder (n=31) with one biopsy each from renal pelvis and urethra. Representative paraffin blocks were chosen from each case for immunoperoxidase staining with SV40 large T antigen. There were 22 males and 7 females with an age range of 34 to 79 years (mean, 64.7 years). The histologic diagnoses of the 33 tissue biopsies were: benign urothelium (n=9), urothelial carcinoma (n=21) and 1 case each of dysplasia, small cell carcinoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia involving lamina propria of the bladder. Only 3 of 33 biopsies on hematoxylin-stained sections showed morphologic changes of polyoma virus, which lacked sufficient tissue to perform immunohistochemistry for SV40 large T antigen (LTag). Immunohistochemical staining for LTag was positive in 7 cases. Only 2 cases showed strong/diffuse and moderate/focal staining for LTag with both representing invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma (where no inclusions were seen on hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections) and both demonstrating positive immunostaining for p53. One of these 2 cases was from an organ transplant recipient and the other from a patient with no known immunosuppression. Our data  lead to the following conclusions: 1) cytology appears to be more sensitive than  histology in detecting cells with polyoma virus; 2) cytohistologic discordance might be due to: a) polyoma (BK) virus infected cells are shed from the tissue and collected in the urine; b) polyoma virus changes may be focal and not sampled in directed tissue biopsies; c) polyoma virus changes may originate from sites in the genitourinary tract other than the bladder; d) the lack of a "gold standard"  to confirm the cytologic diagnoses of polyoma virus; and e) the discordance in time between the biopsy and cytology specimens in the current retrospective study. 3) Because some cytologically benign cases of polyoma virus were associated with malignant biopsies, careful morphologic evaluation is required to avoid false-negative urinary cytology samples. This investigation further examined the immunohistochemical staining pattern for SV40 LTag and p53 in noninvasive low-grade papillary urothelial carcinoma using a tissue microarray constructed from bladder biopsies of 79 randomly selected patients. Weak LTag staining was present in occasional neoplastic urothelial cells of 2 patients. The staining was present in only one of four samples from each tumor (0.63%; 2 of 316 tumor spots), which further illustrates the patchy and focal presence of virion containing cells. p53 staining in these two spots was also patchy and confined to rare nuclei."
2093	"BACKGROUND: Familial clustering of B-cell disorders among Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) patients has been reported, though the frequency and any differences in disease manifestation for familial patients remain to be defined. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We therefore analyzed clinicopathological data from 257 consecutive and unrelated WM patients. Forty-eight (18.7%) patients had at least  one first-degree relative with either WM (n = 13, 5.1%), or another B-cell disorder including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 9, 3.5%), myeloma (n = 8, 3.1%), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 7, 2.7%), monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (n = 5, 1.9%), acute lymphocytic leukemia (n = 3, 1.2%) and Hodgkin's disease (n = 3, 1.2%). Patients with a familial history of WM or a plasma cell disorder (PCD) were diagnosed at a younger age and with greater bone  marrow involvement. RESULTS: Deletions in 6q represented the only recurrent structural chromosomal abnormality and were found in 13% of patients, all non-familial cases. Interphase FISH analysis demonstrated deletions in 6q21-22.1 in nearly half of patients, irrespective of familial background. CONCLUSIONS: The above results suggest a high degree of clustering for B-cell disorders among first-degree relatives of patients with WM, along with distinct clinical features at presentation based on familial disease cluster patterns. Genomic studies to delineate genetic predisposition to WM are underway."
2094	"Although the small B-cell lymphomas show major morphologic overlapping, they have been recently shown to be distinct entities with several biologic and clinical differences. Therefore, the utility of a panel of paraffin-reactive antibodies in differentiating these neoplasms was investigated. Using clinical data and morphologic criteria, 134 cases of small B-cell lymphomas were grouped as those with (1) one strongly suggested diagnosis, (2) differential diagnosis between two types of lymphomas, and (3) small B-cell lymphoma without hints for further subclassification. With a panel of antibodies including CD5, CD10, CD23, CD43, bcl-2, and cyclin D1, most but not all cases could be precisely categorized. This panel confirmed the diagnosis in 96.5% of the cases from group 1. In group 2 it confirmed one of the two diagnoses in 81.5% of the cases. In group 3 it established a definitive diagnosis in 55% of the cases. When all groups were considered, a correct diagnosis could be established for 88.1% of cases; for 6.7% of them the authors remained with two possible diagnosis, and the broad "small B-cell lymphoma" was the only diagnosis for 5.2% of cases. CD10 separated most follicular lymphomas from other small B-cell lymphoid neoplasms. CD23 separated small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Cyclin D1 separated mantle cell lymphoma. The present study selected CD10, CD23, and cyclin D1 as a minimal panel for the classification of small B-cell lymphomas, yielding a final  diagnosis in 88.1% of the cases."
2095	"The mutation status and usage of specific VH genes such as V3-21 and V1-69 are potentially independent pathogenic and prognostic factors in chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (CLL). To investigate the role of antigenic stimulation, we analyzed the expression of genes involved in B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling/activation, cell  cycle, and apoptosis control in CLL using these specific VH genes compared to VH  mutated (VH-MUT) and VH unmutated (VH-UM) CLL not using these VH genes. V3-21 cases showed characteristic expression differences compared to VH-MUT (up: ZAP70  [or ZAP-70]; down: CCND2, P27) and VH-UM (down: PI3K, CCND2, P27, CDK4, BAX) involving several BCR-related genes. Similarly, there was a marked difference between VH unmutated cases using the V1-69 gene and VH-UM (up: FOS; down: BLNK, SYK, CDK4, TP53). Therefore, usage of specific VH genes appears to have a strong  influence on the gene expression pattern pointing to antigen recognition and ongoing BCR stimulation as a pathogenic factor in these CLL subgroups."
2096	"The expression of P53, Bcl-2, Bax, Bag-1, and Mcl-1 proteins in CD5/CD20-positive B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells from 30 typical CLL patients was evaluated before and after 48 h of incubation with 10(-6) M fludarabine using multiparametric flow cytometric analysis. Protein expression was correlated with  annexin V expression, Rai modified clinical staging, lymphocyte doubling time, and previous treatment. Our main goal was to determine the predictive value of these proteins in CLL cells in terms of disease evolution. Bcl-2 expression decreased from a median fluorescence index (MFI) of 331.71 +/- 42.2 to 245.81 +/- 52.2 (P < 0.001) after fludarabine treatment, but there was no difference between viable cells (331.57 +/- 44.6 MFI) and apoptotic cells (331.71 +/- 42.2 MFI) before incubation (P = 0.859). Bax expression was higher in viable cells (156.24  +/- 32.2 MFI) than in apoptotic cells (133.56 +/- 35.7 MFI) before incubation, probably reflecting defective apoptosis in CLL (P = 0.001). Mcl-1 expression was  increased in fludarabine-resistant cells and seemed to be a remarkable protein for the inhibition of the apoptotic process in CLL (from 233.59 +/- 29.8 to 252.04 +/- 35.5; P = 0.033). After fludarabine treatment, Bag-1 expression was increased in fludarabine-resistant cells (from 425.55 +/- 39.3 to 447.49 +/- 34.5 MFI, P = 0.012), and interestingly, this higher expression occurred in patients who had a short lymphocyte doubling time (P = 0.022). Therefore, we could assume  that Bag-1 expression in such situation might identify CLL patients who will need treatment earlier."
2098	"A dramatic change has taken place in therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia over the past 15 years. In 1990, available therapy produced complete responses in less than 5% of treated patients. This is in marked contrast to modern regimens,  which can reliably produce complete responses in over 50% of patients. This remarkable improvement is completely attributable to the introduction of new active agents. These new agents include three purine analogues (pentostatin, fludarabine, and cladribine) and two monoclonal antibodies (rituximab and alemtuzumab). Novel combinations of these agents have emerged as effective new therapies for previously untreated and pretreated patients. Clinical studies indicate that such combinations can induce higher response rates-including complete responses-than single-agent therapy. Those patients who achieve a complete response have superior survival, compared with those who achieve only a  partial response. Though not yet demonstrated in a prospective randomized trial,  treatment approaches aimed at achieving high-quality responses may one day lead to an improvement in survival for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and, ultimately, offer the hope of curative therapy in these patients."
2100	"OBJECTIVES: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) comprises a heterogeneous group of at least two types of disease entities characterized by distinctive clinical, immunophenotypical and genetic features. The molecular mechanisms underlying the  pathogenesis and the histological transformation of CLL are not well known. The INK4A/p16, a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor has been considered as a tumor suppressor gene. Inactivation of this gene by homozygous deletions, mutations and hypermethylation occurs in a variety of human neoplasms. The aim of the present study was to determine the frequency of p16 gene deletions and mutations as well  as the methylation status of the same gene in CLL patients. METHODS: We examined 34 samples from CLL patients by Southern Blotting, Single-Strand Conformation Polymorphism (SSCP), DNA sequencing and Methylation-Specific PCR. RESULTS: Southern Blot analysis revealed non-rearranged bands in 33/34 cases. Homozygous deletions were not observed in any case. In 1/34 case a rearranged band was detected with EcoRI enzyme. The PCR-SSCP analysis of exons 1 and 3 revealed normal pattern of migration in all cases examined. The analysis of exon  2 revealed abnormal migration pattern in 2/34 cases (5.8%). Sequencing of these cases revealed the presence of the ALA148THR polymorphism. Methylation analysis of p16 gene promoter revealed hypermethylation of CpG islands in 6/34 cases (17.6%). CONCLUSION: These results indicate that genetic alterations of p16 gene are rare  events in patients with CLL. The clarification of the role of p16 gene promoter methylation in the pathogenesis and evolution of CLL needs further investigation."
2101	"ZAP-70 is a protein tyrosine kinase initially found in T and NK cells. Recently,  this important signaling element was detected in leukemic B cells from a subgroup of patients with B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In this study, ZAP-70 was detected in normal B cells from human tonsils, but not from peripheral blood. The cDNA sequence of B cell ZAP-70 was the same as that in T cells. Germinal center B cells and plasma cells had a substantial proportion of ZAP-70+  cells, while memory and follicular mantle B cells, which contain low numbers of activated B cells, expressed relatively little ZAP-70. A cell fraction of IgD+, CD38+ B cells, which are comprised of many in vivo activated B cells, exhibited the highest levels of ZAP-70. Density gradient fractionation of tonsil B cells confirmed that ZAP-70 was not expressed by resting B cells, but was expressed by  buoyant, in vivo activated B cells. In these B cells, the expression of ZAP-70 correlated with that of CD38 and not with that of CD5, a hallmark of B-CLL cells. B-CLL cells are activated cells and their ZAP-70 expression reflects a normal property of activated B cells populations rather than a neoplastic aberration."
2102	"AIM: The question as to whether the incidence of leukemias and malignant lymphomas among the Chernobyl clean-up workers increased in 20 years after the catastrophe is still a point of much controversy. Precise diagnosis of the main forms of hematopoietic malignancies according to FAB classification and new WHO classification and comparison of these data with that in the general population will be helpful in estimating the relative contribution of the radiation factor to the overall incidence of such pathologies. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The data on 218 consecutive cases of malignant diseases of  hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues in Chernobyl clean-up workers diagnosed in 1996-2005 are given in comparison with the data of 2697 consecutive patients of general population of the same age group. The morphology and cytochemistry of bone marrow and peripheral blood cells were studied. Immunocytochemical techniques (APAAP, LSAB-AP) and the broad panel of monoclonal antibodies to lineage specific and differentiation antigens of leukocytes were employed for immunophenotyping leukemic cells. RESULTS: Various types of oncohematological diseases developing 10-20 years after Chernobyl accident were registered in a group of clean-up workers under study including myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), acute leukemias (ALL and AML), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and other chronic myeloproliferative diseases, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and other chronic lymphoproliferative diseases of B  and T cell origin. MDS percentage among patients of clean-up workers group tended to exceed MDS percentage in the group of patients representing the general population examined at the same period (4.58 vs. 3.70%). Among 34 AML cases, leukemia was preceded by MDS in seven patients. The relative contribution of CML  to the total number of clean-up workers with leukemia was higher than the corresponding percentage value in general population examined at the same period  (9.17 vs. 6.59%). B-CLL was a predominant form of hematopoietic malignancies in clean-up workers under study (25.68%). Nevertheless, B-CLL percentage in patients of clean-up workers group did not differ significantly from that in the patients  of general population. The multiple myeloma percentage (7.79%) in the group of patients belonging to clean-up workers in our study turned out to be twice as much as in the patients of general population (4.0%). CONCLUSION: The verified diagnosis of tumors of hematopoietic and lymphoid tissue according to modern classification (EGIL, WHO) could be the prerequisite for further molecular genetic and analytical epidemiology study of leukemias that may be related to Chernobyl NPP accident consequences."
2104	"For many years it has been evident that B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) displays preferential usage of individual immunoglobulin (Ig) variable heavy chain (V(H)) genes. The V(H)1-69 gene was the first to be reported overrepresented in a large number of CLL patients, where the V(H)1-69(+) CLL rearrangements showed characteristic molecular features, such as unmutated V(H) genes, usage of specific diversity/joining gene segments, and a longer than average complementarity determining region (CDR) 3 with certain common amino acid motifs. Also, biased usage of the V(H)3-07 and V(H)4-34 genes with specific rearrangement characteristics was reported in CLL. These findings led to the speculation that antigens could be involved during CLL development by triggering  proliferation of B-cells with specific B-cell receptors (BCRs) leading to an increased risk of transforming events. Recently, we characterized a subset of CLL utilizing the V(H)3-21 gene that also displayed peculiar Ig features, e.g. very short and homologous CDR3s, predominant lambda expression and preferential V(lambda)2-14 gene usage. This V(H)3-21(+) subgroup also had poor prognosis despite the fact that two-thirds of cases carried mutated V(H) genes. Moreover, we and others have thereafter described further CLL subsets with very similar heavy and light chain gene rearrangement features. These latter findings of subsets expressing restricted BCRs have emphasized the hypothesis that antigens could play a role during the pathogenesis of CLL. Interestingly, recombinant antibodies produced from these restricted subsets showed similar cytoplasmatic reactivity within each group, thus suggesting recognition of a limited number of  autoantigens. Further characterization of antigens is now necessary in order to understand their nature and exact role in CLL development."
2105	"A 56-year-old married female presented in May 1998 with a 5-month history of xanthelasma of the eyelids, followed 4 months later by two enlarged lymph nodes of the left side of the neck and three of the left axilla. At the same time, she  developed xanthomatous patches on the face, neck, and shoulders (Fig. 1). The cutaneous lesions were xanthomatous nodules and plaques, affecting the periorbital regions. Later, the whole face was affected, followed by ulcerated lesions on the scalp, chest, back, and extremities (Fig. 2). The skin lesions became painful, pruritic, ulcerated tumors (Fig. 3). In July 1998, computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest and abdomen with contrast medium showed pretracheal, bilateral axillary, right retrochural, paracaval, aortocaval, and para-aortic lymph node enlargement. These findings were suggestive of lymphoma. CT scan also showed slight heterogeneous hypodensity in the upper part of the right lobe of the liver, suggesting fatty infiltration. The spleen, pancreas, and suprarenal glands appeared normal. One cervical and two left axillary lymph nodes were excised. They revealed total replacement of the nodular architecture by a diffuse proliferation of mature lymphoid cells having small nuclei and a crumbled chromatin pattern, and very rare mitosis. It was concluded from the lymph node biopsies that these changes were typical of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, diffuse and small cell type, of low-grade malignancy. A bone marrow aspirate showed a marrow  heavily infiltrated by lymphoid cells with some immaturity. The megakaryopoiesis  was adequate. Trephine biopsies showed similar changes. Iron stores appeared to be absent. The bone marrow picture was consistent with diffuse, well-differentiated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, developing into chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Endoscopy showed antral-type gastric mucosa exhibiting mild chronic gastritis. Skin biopsy from a fresh lesion on the back showed a diffuse inflammatory cell infiltrate with collections of histiocytic cells. It also showed necrobiotic foci, surrounded by mixed inflammatory cells, dark palisaded foamy histiocytes, and a few Touton giant cells. These findings are compatible with necrobiotic xanthogranuloma (NXG) (Figs 4 and 5). Blood film showed normochromic, normocytic erythrocytes with anisopoikilocytotic leukocytes and normal platelets. The sedimentation rate was 90 mm in the first hour. The blood picture also showed monoclonal IgG paraprotein (3170 mg/dL) of the kappa light chain type. The patient was treated by the oncologist for her lymphoma, and was given Cytoxan, prednisolone, endoxan, Leukeran, and melphalan. She showed an excellent response to pulsed treatment with steroids (60 mg prednisolone orally daily for 5 days, repeated every month for 6 months). She also responded to Leukeran at a dose of 5 mg daily for 5 days every month for 6 months, and showed  regression in the size of the lymph nodes. The treatment of her skin lesions was  unsatisfactory in spite of the fact that she was given cyclosporine and both systemic and topical corticosteroids."
2106	"Studies of gene expression profiling have been successfully used for the identification of molecules to be employed as potential prognosticators. In analogy with gene expression profiling, we have recently proposed a novel method  to identify the immunophenotypic signature of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia subsets with different prognosis, named surface-antigen expression profiling. According to this approach, surface marker expression data can be analysed by data mining tools identical to those employed in gene expression profiling studies, including unsupervised and supervised algorithms, with the aim of identifying the immunophenotypic signature of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia subsets with different prognosis. Here we provide an overview of the overall strategy employed for the development of such an "outcome class-predictor" based  on surface-antigen expression signatures. In addition, we will also discuss how to transfer the obtained information into the routine clinical practice by providing a flow-chart indicating how to select the most relevant antigens and build-up a prognostic scoring system by weighing each antigen according to its predictive power. Although referred to B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the methodology discussed here can be also useful in the study of diseases other than B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, when the purpose is to identify novel prognostic determinants."
2107	"The incidence of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is low in Asian countries including Japan, while CLL is the most common type of leukemia in the west. To elucidate which factors contribute to the low frequency of CLL in Japan, we investigated immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain gene usage and somatic hypermutation status in 44 Japanese patients with CLL. Only one of these patients used V(H)1-69. The finding is in striking contrast to data from western countries, where the frequency of CLL expressing V(H)1-69 ranges from 12 to 21%."
2108	"The effects of the hyperforin (HF), a natural phloroglucinol purified from Hypericum perforatum, were investigated ex vivo on leukemic cells from patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). HF was found to promote apoptosis of B-CLL cells, as shown by time- and dose-dependent stimulation of phosphatidylserine externalization and DNA fragmentation, by disruption of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential, caspase-3 activation and cleavage of the caspase substrate PARP-1. Moreover, HF-induced downregulation of Bcl-2 and Mcl-1, two antiapoptotic proteins that control mitochondrial permeability. HF also downregulated two proteins which are overexpressed by B-CLL patients' cells, the  cell cycle inhibitor p27kip1 through caspase-dependent cleavage into a p23 form,  and the nitric oxid (NO) synthase of type 2 (inducible NO synthase). This latter  was accompanied by reduction in the production of NO known to be antiapoptotic in B-CLL cells. Preventing effects of the general caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk indicated that HF-promoted apoptosis of B-CLL cells was mostly caspase dependent. Furthermore, normal B lymphocytes purified from healthy donors appeared less sensitive to HF-induced apoptosis than B-CLL cells. These results indicate that HF may be of interest in the development of new therapies for B-CLL based on the  induction of apoptosis and combination with cell cycle-dependent antitumor drugs."
2109	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)-B-cells are quiescent differentiated cells that produce interleukin (IL)-10 and accumulate due to resistance to apoptosis. The mechanisms underlying such resistance are poorly understood. Herein we show that all CLL B-cells tested (30/30) display high mRNA and protein expression of the tumor suppressor Mda-7/IL-24, an IL-10 family member, in comparison to normal B cells. A downstream Mda-7 signaling target, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was highly phosphorylated in all CLL cells but not in normal B-cells. Mda-7 expression and p38 MAPK phosphorylation diminished in culture and  the latter could be reinduced by recombinant (r)-IL-24 or LPS and Mda-7 transfection. Mda-7/IL-24 siRNA specifically inhibited p38 MAPK phosphorylation in CLL without affecting p38 MAPK, bcl2, or Lyn expression, further demonstrating the direct role of Mda-7/IL-24 in p38 MAPK activation. Both pharmacological inhibition of p38 MAPK and Mda-7 silencing augmented spontaneous apoptosis by three-fold in CLL cells cultured in autologous serum, which was reversed by LPS and r-IL-24. We established the role of p38 MAPK in CLL cell survival and demonstrated a paradoxical effect, whereby Mda-7 and IL-24, inducers of apoptosis in diverse cancer cells, promote the survival of CLL B-cells through p38 MAPK activation."
2114	"PURPOSE: Serum B-lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) levels have been found to be elevated in a number of immune disease models. Therefore, we sought to establish  whether BLyS levels were elevated in patients with B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders and to determine whether elevated BLyS levels correlated with clinical  characteristics of the disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Specimens were collected from the peripheral blood of individuals diagnosed with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL; n = 70) or from age- and sex-matched patients seen at the same institution (n = 41). Serum BLyS levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and sequencing  of the BLyS promoter was performed by conventional methods and confirmed by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. RESULTS: We found that elevated BLyS levels were more common in patients with familial B-CLL than individuals with sporadic B-CLL or normal controls. Because of this association, we sequenced the BLyS promoter in patients with B-CLL and normal controls and identified a polymorphic site, -871 C/T. We found that the wild-type sequence was significantly underrepresented in patients with familial B-CLL (4%) compared with patients with sporadic B-CLL (30%; P = .01) or controls  (24%; P = .04). Furthermore, using a luciferase reporter under control of the BLyS promoter containing either a C or a T at position -871, we found that the reporter construct containing a T at -871 had a 2.6-fold increase in activity (P  = .004). CONCLUSION: Our data suggest serum BLyS levels are elevated in patients with familial B-CLL and that elevated BLyS levels correlate with the presence of a T at -871 in the BLyS promoter."
2116	"OBJECTIVE: To study the frequency of interstitial 7q deletions in B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (B-LPDs). METHODS: Cases were collected from the clinical laboratory diagnosis database at  USLabs/LabCorp over the past two years (2002 to 2004). Cases that showed deletions in the long arm of chromosome 7 were then reviewed. Interstitial deletions in the long arm of chromosome 7 were further investigated according to  the indications for clinical laboratory studies and flow cytometry findings. The  final clinical diagnosis for each case was obtained from the referring physician. RESULTS: A total of 19,483 cases were included in this series. Eighty-five cases  were observed to have either terminal or interstitial deletion in the long arm of chromosome 7. Of the 85 cases, 46 had interstitial deletions accounting for 54.1% of the 7q deletions combined. B-LPDs were found in 10 of the 46 cases, accounting for 21.7%. The B-LPDs associated with 7q interstitial deletions were diverse, including B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) in five cases. The deleted  region in the long arm of chromosome 7 in the 10 cases associated with B-LPDs was solely confined to the 7q22-q32 region. CONCLUSION: (1) The frequency of 7q interstitial deletions associated with B-LPDs is substantially high; (2) 7q interstitial deletions are not uncommon in B-CLL."
2117	"Donor lymphocyte infusions (DLIs) induce potent graft versus tumor (GVT) effects  for relapsed chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) but are disappointing for other diseases. Disease resistance can occur if donor T cells are not appropriately activated in vivo. Ex vivo T-cell activation might overcome disease-induced anergy and augment GVT activity. We performed a phase 1 trial of ex vivo-activated DLI (aDLI) for 18 patients with relapse after SCT. Activated donor T cells are produced through costimulation with anti-CD3- and anti-CD28-coated beads. Patients with aggressive malignancies received induction chemotherapy, and all patients received conventional DLI (median, 1.5 x 10(8) mononuclear cells/kg) followed 12 days later by aDLI. Activated DLI was dose escalated from 1 x 10(6) to 1 x 10(8) CD3+  cells per kilogram in 5 levels. Seven patients developed acute graft versus host  disease (GVHD) (5 grade I-II, 2 grade III), and 4 developed chronic GVHD. Eight patients achieved complete remission, including 4 of 7 with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), 2 of 4 with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), 1 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and 1 of 2 with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Four complete responders relapsed while 4 remain alive in remission a median 23 months after aDLI. Overall, 10 of 18 remain alive 11 to 53 months after aDLI. Adoptive transfer of costimulated activated allogeneic T cells is feasible, does not result in excessive GVHD, and may contribute to durable remissions in diseases where conventional DLI has been disappointing."
2118	"We report results in 41 consecutive patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) after fludarabine, melphalan, and alemtuzumab conditioning. Donors were 24 HLA-matched  siblings and 17 unrelated volunteers, 4 of them mismatched with recipients. All but 3 patients had initial hematologic recovery, but 5 more patients had secondary graft failure. Median intervals to neutrophil (greater than 0.5 x 10(9)/L) and platelet (greater than 20 x 10(9)/L) recovery were 14 days (range, 9-30 days) and 11 days (range, 8-45 days), respectively. Eleven (27%) patients had relapses and received escalated donor lymphocyte infusions, but only 3 of them had sustained responses. Acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)  was observed in 17 (41%) and 13 (33%) patients, respectively. Seventeen (41%) patients have died, 5 of progressive disease. The 2-year overall survival and transplantation-related mortality (TRM) rates were 51% (95% confidence interval [CI], 33%-69%) and 26% (95% CI, 14%-46%), respectively. The alemtuzumabbased regimen was feasible and effective in patients with CLL with a relatively low rate of GVHD. However, TRM remains relatively high as a result of a variety of viral and fungal infections. Studies are ongoing to address the efficacy of reduced doses of alemtuzumab in this group of immunosuppressed patients."
2119	"Therapy for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has greatly changed  over the past few years. After years of stagnation, with treatment revolving around the use of rather ineffective drugs such as alkylators, many patients are  now being treated with more effective agents such as purine analogs either alone  or combined with other drugs and/or monoclonal antibodies. Treatment of patients  refractory to these treatments is particularly challenging and should be decided  only upon a careful evaluation of the disease, patient characteristics, and prognostic factors. Refractory disease should be clearly separated from relapsing disease. The only curative therapy for patients with CLL, including those with refractory disease, is allogeneic stem cell transplantation. However, the use of  allogeneic transplantation is limited because of the advanced age of most patients and the high transplant-related mortality (TRM). Transplants with nonmyeloablative regimens may reduce TRM and allow more patients to receive transplants more safely. For patients in whom an allogeneic transplantation is not feasible or in whom it is deemed inappropriate, participation in phase 2 trials should be encouraged. Finally, to investigate mechanisms to overcome resistance to therapy in CLL and to identify patients that might gain benefit from early, intensive therapies (eg, based on biologic markers) constitute a challenge that needs active investigation."
2120	"Clinical investigations have revealed that infusion of immunotherapeutic mAbs directed to normal or tumor cells can lead to loss of targeted epitopes, a phenomenon called antigenic modulation. Recently, we reported that rituximab treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients induced substantial loss of CD20 on B cells found in the circulation after rituximab infusion, when rituximab plasma concentrations were high. Such antigenic modulation can severely compromise therapeutic efficacy, and we postulated that B cells had been stripped (shaved) of the rituximab/CD20 complex by monocytes or macrophages in a reaction  mediated by FcgammaR. We developed an in vitro model to replicate this in vivo shaving process, based on reacting rituximab-opsonized CD20(+) cells with acceptor THP-1 monocytes. After 45 min at 37 degrees C, rituximab and CD20 are removed from opsonized cells, and both are demonstrable on acceptor THP-1 cells.  The reaction occurs equally well in the presence and absence of normal human serum, and monocytes isolated from peripheral blood also promote shaving of CD20  from rituximab-opsonized cells. Tests with inhibitors and use of F(ab')(2) of rituximab indicate transfer of rituximab/CD20 complexes to THP-1 cells is mediated by FcgammaR. Antigenic modulation described in previous reports may have been mediated by such shaving, and our findings may have profound implications for the use of mAbs in the immunotherapy of cancer."
2124	"Despite the efficiency of fludarabine in the induction of clinical responses in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients, resistance to this drug has been documented. The present study tested whether resistance to fludarabine is related to the expression of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) family members. We analyzed the expression of c-IAP1, c-IAP2 and XIAP, by immunocytochemistry, in 30 blood samples from B-CLL patients and correlated protein expression to fludarabine-induced apoptosis estimated by an annexin-V assay. Expression of c-IAP1, c-IAP2 and XIAP were found predominantly in the cytoplasm, and a wide range of staining intensities was observed among distinct samples. No correlation was found between the levels of IAPs expression and prognostic factors such as age, gender, lymphocyte doubling time, white blood cell count or previous treatment. The expression of IAPs also failed to predict the sensitivity to fludarabine-induced apoptosis. Alternative pathways of cell death may explain the independence of fludarabine-induced apoptosis from the high expression of IAPs."
2125	"Recently, considerable progress has been made in the identification of molecular  and cellular markers that may predict the tendency for disease progression in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or detect minimal residual disease after therapy. These developments have created uncertainty for clinicians who hope to incorporate the use of these markers and new disease-assessment tools into standard clinical practice. However, clinical trials are required to determine whether poor-prognosis leukemia-cell markers, such as expression of unmutated immunoglobulin genes or the zeta-associated protein of 70 kDa (ZAP-70), can be used as the basis for determining the time or type of therapy. Pending the outcome of such trials, treatment decisions outside the context of a clinical trial still should be based on guidelines established by the most recent National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group."
2126	"Combination chemotherapy with fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC) was compared with the standard regimen of fludarabine monotherapy in first-line treatment of younger patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Between 1999 and 2003,  a total of 375 patients younger than 66 years who predominantly had advanced CLL  were randomly assigned to receive either fludarabine (25 mg/m(2) for 5 days intravenously, repeated every 28 days) or FC combination therapy (fludarabine 30  mg/m(2) plus cyclophosphamide 250 mg/m(2) for 3 days intravenously, repeated every 28 days). Both regimens were administered to a maximum of 6 courses. FC combination chemotherapy resulted in significantly higher complete remission rate (24%) and overall response rate (94%) compared with fludarabine alone (7% and 83%; P < .001 and P = .001). FC treatment also resulted in longer median progression-free survival (48 vs 20 months; P = .001) and longer treatment-free survival (37 vs 25 months; P < .001). Thus far, no difference in median overall survival has been observed. FC caused significantly more thrombocytopenia and leukocytopenia but did not increase the number of severe infections. In summary,  first-line treatment with FC increases the response rates and the treatment-free  interval in younger patients with advanced CLL."
2127	"Interactions between CD40 and CD40 ligand (CD154) are essential in the regulation of both humoral and cellular immune responses. Forced expression of human CD154 in B chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells can upregulate costimulatory and  adhesion molecules and restore antigen-presenting capacity. Unfortunately, B-CLL  cells are resistant to direct gene manipulation with most currently available gene transfer systems. In this report, we describe the use of a nonviral, clinical-grade, electroporation-based gene delivery system and a standard plasmid carrying CD154 cDNA, which achieved efficient (64+/-15%) and rapid (within 3 h) transfection of primary B-CLL cells. Consistent results were obtained from multiple human donors. Transfection of CD154 was functional in that it led to upregulated expression of CD80, CD86, ICAM-I and MHC class II (HLA-DR) on the B-CLL cells and induction of allogeneic immune responses in MLR assays. Furthermore, sustained transgene expression was demonstrated in long-term cryopreserved transfected cells. This simple and rapid gene delivery technology has been validated under the current Good Manufacturing Practice conditions, and  multiple doses of CD154-expressing cells were prepared for CLL patients from one  DNA transfection. Vaccination strategies using autologous tumor cells manipulated ex vivo for patients with B-CLL and perhaps with other hematopoietic malignancies could be practically implemented using this rapid and efficient nonviral gene delivery system."
2128	"Cure of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been an elusive goal. The recent availability of active monoclonal antibodies has rekindled enthusiasm for new and innovative therapeutic approaches. Alemtuzumab, induces responses in about a third of patients with relapsed or refractory CLL following  therapy with fludarabine and an alkylating agent. Whereas, rituximab has limited  activity in previously treated patients, response rates of 50-70% have been reported in those without prior therapy. Recent data on combinations with rituximab and chemotherapy have shown promise for improving patient outcome. Newer antibodies in development include the primatized monoclonal antibody lumiliximab (IDEC-152), directed against CD23. Other biological approaches include the use of antisense oligonucleotides, proapoptic small molecules, and vaccines directed against the malignant B cells. The rational development of combinations of these promising approaches may eliminate the need for chemotherapy, leading to safer and more effective approaches for patients with CLL."
2129	"Although molecular remission is now detected, it is still unknown whether we have the tools to cure B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (referred to as CLL). Nonetheless, several new therapeutic approaches have been introduced in cancer therapy during the last decade, including antiangiogenic therapy, apoptosis-inducing treatment and inhibition of heat shock proteins, farnesyl transferase, tyrosine kinases and proteasomes. These modalities may also be considered in CLL, but additional experimental characterization is required. Further characterization and development of CLL animal models should be a part of this preclinical work (especially xenografting in NOD/SCID animals, but also murine leukemia) to allow a more extensive evaluation prior to clinical trials. Animal models are particularly important for preclinical comparison of pharmacological effects between different disease compartments and for in vivo evaluation of antileukemic immune reactivity. However, T cell targeting therapy seems to have several advantages in comparison to other approaches: (1) based on  the current clinical experience one would expect low toxicity for several of these strategies, especially vaccine treatment; (2) several studies have demonstrated that autologous T cells can recognize CLL cells; (3) experimental and clinical evidence suggests that immunotherapy can be combined with chemotherapy. Thus, T cell therapy has a relatively strong scientific basis that  justifies further clinical studies of immunotherapy in CLL. Although several of the new pharmacological agents seem to have immunosuppressive effects, at least some of them (e.g. heat shock protein 90 inhibitors, proteasome inhibitors, inhibition of angiogenesis) appear to affect T cells only at relatively high concentrations and may thus be used in combination with immunotherapy."
2130	"Over the past decade, the introduction of nucleoside analogs and monoclonal antibodies into the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has resulted in higher rates and longer duration of response. This is a significant step towards achieving the ultimate goal of disease-eradication and improved survival. A continuing problem, however, is the susceptibility of these  patients to infections. Profound dysregulation of the host immune system in patients with CLL and its impact on the clinical course of the disease are well established. A number of investigators have sought to identify the mechanisms underlying this innate immune dysfunction, which is further exacerbated by the actions of the potent therapeutic agents. The early recognition of infections as  well as prophylactic administration of appropriate antibiotics has been the mainstay of managing infections in patients with CLL. Hopefully, increasing understanding of the molecular events underlying the neoplastic change in CLL will lead to more targeted and less immunosuppressive therapeutic modalities. Furthermore, the understanding of the mechanisms of immune dysfunction in CLL is  of pivotal importance in the novel immune-based therapeutic strategies currently  under development."
2132	"The fully human anti-HLA-DR antibody 1D09C3 has been shown to delay lymphoma cell growth in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice. The present study was aimed at (a) investigating the mechanism(s) of 1D09C3-induced cell death and (b)  further exploring the therapeutic efficacy of 1D09C3 in nonobese diabetic (NOD)/SCID mice. The chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell line JVM-2 and the mantle  cell lymphoma cell line GRANTA-519 were used. Generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial membrane depolarization were measured by flow cytometry following cell incubation with dihydroethidium and TMRE, respectively.  Western blot analysis was used to detect c-Jun-NH(2)-kinase (JNK) phosphorylation and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). NOD/SCID mice were used to investigate the activity of 1D09C3 in early- or advanced-stage tumor xenografts. In vitro, 1D09C3-induced cell death involves a cascade of events, including ROS increase, JNK activation, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, and AIF release from mitochondria. Inhibition of JNK activity significantly reduced 1D09C3-induced apoptosis, indicating that 1D09C3 activity involves activation of the kinase. In  vivo, 1D09C3 induces long-term disease-free survival in a significant proportion  of tumor-bearing mice treated at an early stage of disease. Treatment of mice bearing advanced-stage lymphoma results in a highly significant prolongation of survival. These data show that 1D09C3 (a) exerts a potent antitumor effect by activating ROS-dependent, JNK-driven cell death, (b) cures the great majority of  mice treated at an early-stage of disease, and (c) significantly prolongs survival of mice with advanced-stage disease."
2133	"PURPOSE: The ZAP-70 gene is normally expressed in T and natural killer cells, where it is required for the T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling. More recently, it has been described that ZAP-70 contributes to the B-cell development at early stages of B-cell differentiation in mice. The purpose was to investigate the presence of ZAP-70 in normal pro/pre B cells and mature B cells and in tumoral cells from B-acute lymphoblastic leukemias (B-ALL). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: ZAP-70 expression was ascertained by flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, Western blot, and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. Analysis of ZAP-70 and other signaling proteins of the pre-TCR/TCR was done by Western blot. RESULTS: ZAP-70 was expressed in pro/pre B cells but not in normal mature B cells derived from bone marrow, peripheral blood, or tonsil. Among tumoral cells, ZAP-70 was expressed in 56% of B-ALLs with pro/pre B-cell phenotype and in 4 of 6 Burkitt/ALL lymphomas. In B-ALL cells, expression of CD38 protein correlated with ZAP-70 expression (P = 0.05). Mutational analysis of the ZAP-70 gene revealed the absence of mutations in cases lacking ZAP-70 expression. Moreover, other elements of the pre-TCR/TCR signaling pathway, like LAT and Lck, were also found in B-ALL  cells. CONCLUSIONS: Among normal B-cell subsets, ZAP-70 was found expressed in normal pro/pre B cells but not in a significant proportion of normal B cells with mature phenotype. Moreover, the presence of ZAP-70 in B-ALLs probably reflects their cellular origin. The lack of ZAP-70 expression in normal mature B cells suggests  that its expression in mature-derived neoplasms with different cellular origin, such as Burkitt's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, might be due to an aberrant phenomenon."
2134	"Soluble CD23 (sCD23) was proposed as a marker of disease activity and as an important prognostic parameter in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In this study, prognostic significance of sCD23 in B-CLL was examined according to its temporal relationship with the known clinical parameters of the disease, CD38 and ZAP-70. Serum sCD23 levels of 36 B-CLL patients, followed up in our clinic between 1999 and 2005, and 15 healthy subjects were measured with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The mean serum sCD23 level of the B-CLL patients (210.72 +/- 193.67 and 6-600 U/ml) was significantly higher than the control group (18.20 +/- 14.30 and 6-50 U/ml). Seventy-eight percent of the B-CLL patients with lymphocyte doubling time (LDT) <12 months and 24% of patients with LDT >12 months had high sCD23 levels (P = 0.008). Meanwhile, 81% of the patients with diffuse bone marrow infiltration and 33% of patients with nondiffuse infiltration had high levels of  serum sCD23 (P = 0.029). A significant difference was found between B-CLL patients with Binet stages A and C (P = 0.009). Peripheral blood flow cytometry of the patients revealed a significant CD38 expression in patients with high serum sCD23 levels (P = 0.002). Similarly, an increased bone marrow zeta-chain associated protein kinase-70 (ZAP-70) expression was seen in patients with high serum sCD23 levels (P = 0.009, correlation co-efficient was 0.714). Cumulative and the progression free survivals of the patients with low serum sCD23 levels were 60.1 +/- 5.7 months [95% confidence interval (CI); 49.0-71.2] and 51.1 +/- 6.6 months (95% CI; 38.0-64.1), respectively. However, they were 43.8 +/- 6.5 months (95% CI; 31.0-56.6) and 26.5 +/- 6.4 months (95% CI; 14.0-39.1) in patients with high levels. Serum sCD23 is increased in B-CLL patients and can be  used in the clinical follow-up of the disease in prediction of the tumor mass and prognosis."
2135	"Micromet AG and Medlmmune Inc are developing MT-103, a single-chain bispecific recombinant antibody from Micromet's BiTE (bispecific T-cell engager) product platform that binds both the CD19 antigen and the T-cell receptor (CD3), for the  potential treatment of B-cell lymphoma. The company is also investigating the compound for the potential treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia."
2136	"Isolated chromosomal translocations are important defining features of many non-Hodgkin lymphomas, especially of B-cell type. In contrast to some other translocations, the significance of IGH/BCL3 translocations is not well defined.  Although often considered a feature of the ill-defined entity atypical chronic lymphocytic leukemia, very few cases are reported in which involvement of BCL3 and the precise B-cell neoplasm are both well documented. For this reason, we report a splenic-based CD5(-), CD10(-), CD43(-), CD23(-), CD103(-), FMC7(+), CD25(+) small B-cell lymphoma associated with epithelioid histiocyte clusters and a t(14;19)(q32;q13) representing an IGH/BCL3 translocation based on classical cytogenetic studies, chromosomal painting, and fluorescence in situ hybridization studies. The previously reported neoplasms with t(14;19)(q32;q13) or IGH/BCL3 translocations are also reviewed. The present case did not fall into any of the classic B-cell lymphoma categories and clearly did not represent chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. This case suggests that the IGH/BCL3 translocation may help to define a new clinicopathologic entity."
2137	"Prognostication in chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) based, in part, on ZAP-70 and CD38 expression, and to a lesser extent,  on MUM1/IRF4 expression, is currently of great interest. The more aggressive type of CLL/SLL is reportedly characterized by neoplastic cells that are more responsive to B-cell signaling with proliferation centers (PCs), a potentially important site of neoplastic cell stimulation. To study the relationship of these markers to each other and to the pattern of PCs, immunohistochemical stains for ZAP-70 and MUM1/IRF4 were performed and the PC patterns assessed (where possible) in 29 tissue biopsies with CLL/SLL. CD38 expression was assessed in 18 cases using flow cytometry. Ten evaluable cases had a typical PC pattern and 16 an atypical pattern with larger or more confluent PCs and/or more numerous paraimmunoblasts/transformed cells. ZAP-70 was positive in 14 of 28 cases, including 3 with atypical PCs and enhanced PC staining. All 29 cases showed MUM1/IRF4 expression in PCs. Seven cases, none with atypical PC, also showed uniform positivity throughout, 14 showed weaker staining of surrounding lymphocytes, and 8 had PC staining only. CD38 was positive in 14 of 18 cases. The only significant association identified was between uniform MUM1/IRF4 positivity  and typical PCs (P = .004). These findings highlight the complex interrelationship of prognostic markers in CLL/SLL and demonstrate potentially important microenvironmental variations in their expression. They support the hypothesis that PCs are a site for B-cell receptor signaling, which helps explain reported site-dependent antigenic variation in CLL/SLL, and suggest that PC morphology may correlate with other biological features."
2138	"A P2X7 receptor gene polymorphism 1513 A-->C has recently been suggested as playing a role in the pathogenesis and disease progression of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, although several studies have failed to show any effect of the polymorphism. The effects of this polymorphism were analysed in 136 patients with multiple myeloma. The frequency of the polymorphism in the myeloma samples was not significantly different from that found in normal healthy controls. There was no significant difference in age at diagnosis, creatinine, hemoglobin, beta-2 microglobulin, immunoglobulin sub-type, duration of first response and overall survival. These results are in keeping with findings in a cohort of 121 chronic lymphocytic leukemia and do not support a role for this polymorphism in multiple  myeloma."
2139	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common leukemia in Westerners. By contrast, B-CLL is rare in Asians, including Japanese. We applied  comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) to screen 26 newly diagnosed Japanese B-CLL patients for genomic aberrations. Chromosomal imbalances were detected in 12 of the 26 cases (46%). The most frequent changes observed were gains of chromosomes 3q in five cases (19%) and 17q in three cases (12%). Other recurrent  imbalances included gains of chromosomes 8q, 18q and losses of chromosomes 13q and 17p. Samples obtained at different sites disclosed identical CGH findings in  all of the three cases examined. Genomic imbalances as detected by CGH were associated with disease progression and shorter survival. Two patients, with chromosomal imbalances, including gains of both 3q and 18q, developed large cell  transformation of the disease within 4 years. In conclusion, CGH abnormality was  associated with poor prognosis in Japanese B-CLL, and features of Japanese B-CLL, compared to chromosomal abnormalities of Western B-CLL in the literature, include a lower incidence of any abnormality in particular regarding gain of 12q, with the exception of a higher incidence of gains at 3q."
2140	"The expression of zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) seems to correlate with the mutational status of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region genes, clinical course and patient prognosis. The aim was to determine the prognostic significance of the immunohistochemical expression of ZAP-70 protein in CLL by means of the long-term follow-up of 108 patients. This study identified 3 patterns of ZAP-70 immunoreactivity: negative (58 patients, 54%), weakly positive (20 patients, 18%) and strongly positive (30 patients, 28%). Overall, ZAP-70 immunoreactivity correlated with an abnormal karyotype ( p = 0.017), a lymphocyte doubling time (LDT) of <6 months ( p = 0.001) and <12 months ( p = 0.01), Rai II - IV and Binet B - C stage ( p = 0.013), the clinical need for chemotherapy ( p < 0.001) and the need for more than 1 chemotherapy line ( p < 0.001). Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated that ZAP-70 immunoreactivity closely correlated with a shorter LDT ( p < 0.0001) and time from diagnosis to initial therapy ( p = 0.0001). The same significance was retained when the patients were stratified into the ZAP-70 immunoreactivity groups ( p < 0.0001). This study shows that ZAP-70 immunoreactivity can be a reliable prognostic marker in CLL and proposes a system for evaluating the results. The observations support the inclusion of the immunohistochemical expression of ZAP-70 in clinical trials involving CLL patients."
2141	"The presence of chromosome abnormalities promotes tumor progression in B-chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, the molecular pathways that are relevant to  tumor progression remain unclear. In this study, we screened for common chromosome abnormalities [13q14 del, 11q22.3 (ATM) del, 17p13 (p53) del and trisomy 12] by fluorescent in situ hybridization in 40 B-CLL patients. Each of the four chromosome abnormality groups was compared to several clinical factors related to lymphocyte behaviour in CLL. The 11q22.3 (ATM) deletion group was significantly associated with the presence of bulky abdominal/mediastinal lymphadenopathy (P = 0.014). We hypothesized that this phenotype would be associated with an altered transcription pattern of genes. Class comparison analysis by significance analysis of microarrays on a subset of CLL samples (n =  14) indicated that a number of cell surface receptor and adhesion related genes were under-expressed in the 11q22.3 deletion group (CD44, CD11a, PTPRC, CD79a, chemokine ligand 17 and chemokine receptor type 6). The presence of additional prognostic factors, such as CD38 and immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region mutational status, may also influence the transcriptional pathways between the two groups. Therefore, we employed a novel analysis technique for the correlation of log(2) gene expression ratios with the percentage of each tumor that carried the 11q22.3 deletion. Using Spearman's correlation, ZAP-70, chemokine ligand 17,  BSAP (PAX5), CD7, LAG3 and PTPR6 were significantly correlated with the percentage of cells with the 11q22.3 deletion. However, the down-regulation of cell surface receptors and adhesion molecules observed by class comparison could  not be confirmed to be specific for the 11q22.3 deletion by this method."
2142	"Transferrin receptor (TfR)-1 and 2 mRNA and CD71 (TfR1) expression was analyzed in 118 CLL patients. Ninety-five out of 109 analyzed cases expressed CD71, mostly at a high level; 60% of CD71 (+) cases were IGH-mutated. All samples were TfR1 mRNA (+); TfR2-alpha/beta mRNA was detected in, respectively, 52/102 and 100/109  cases. Competitive RT-PCR showed widely divergent levels of TfR1 mRNA in cases with high CD71 expression, alluding to post-transcriptional control of TfR1 expression in CLL. The almost uniformly high CD71 expression in CLL is in keeping with the activated status of neoplastic cells, regardless of IGH mutational load."
2143	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized IgG1 kappa antibody directed against CD52, a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol linked cell-membrane protein of unknown function. Herein, we demonstrate that alemtuzumab promotes rapid death of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells in vitro, in a complement and accessory cell free system. Using minimal detergent solubilization of CLL membranes, we found that CD52 colocalizes with ganglioside GM-1, a marker of membrane rafts. Fluorescence microscopy revealed that upon crosslinking CD52 with alemtuzumab+anti-Fc IgG, large patches, and in many cases caps, enriched in CD52  and GM-1 formed upon the CLL cell plasma membrane. Depletion of membrane cholesterol or inhibition of actin polymerization significantly diminished the formation of alemtuzumab-induced caps and reduced alemtuzumab-mediated CLL cell death. We compared alemtuzumab-induced direct cytotoxicity, effector cell-mediated toxicity and complement-mediated cytotoxicity of CLL cells to normal T cells. The direct cytotoxicity and observed capping was significantly greater for CLL cells as compared to normal T cells. Cell-mediated and complement-mediated cytotoxicity did not significantly differ between the two cell types. In summary, our data support the hypothesis that alemtuzumab can initiate CLL cell death by crosslinking CD52-enriched lipid rafts. Furthermore, the differential direct cytotoxic effect suggests that CD52 directed antibodies could possibly be engineered to more specifically target CLL cells."
2144	"Expression of the human oncogene TCL1 in transgenic mice produces B-cell tumors that resemble chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) suggesting its role in B-cell tumorigenesis. To clarify the expression pattern and regulation of TCL1 in CLL, we assessed 213 primary tumors by immunohistochemistry (IHC), flow-cytometry and/or Western blot, using a new monoclonal antibody. TCL1 protein was detectable in the majority of CLL (90% by IHC) but showed marked variations across cases with virtual absence in approximately 10% of tumors. Higher TCL1 levels correlated with markers of the 'pre-germinal center' CLL subtype including unmutated VH status (P=0.005), ZAP70 expression (P=0.007), and presence of chromosome 11q22-23 deletions (P=0.04). Intratumoral heterogeneity in TCL1 levels was also prominent and explained in part by markedly lower TCL1 expression in proliferating tumor cells. In vitro exposure of CLL cells to interleukin-4 (but not other growth factors) produced progressive and irreversible decrease in TCL1  protein levels in association with the onset of proliferation. TCL1 expression patterns in CLL are complex and highly dynamic and appear to reflect both the histogenetic subtypes of the disease and the growth parameters of individual tumors. The observed regulation pattern suggests that TCL1 may exert its effects  predominantly in the unmutated/ZAP70-positive tumor subset."
2145	"Weak immunogenicity of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells may contribute to disease progression and inhibit effective immunotherapy. Accordingly, agents that enhance the immunogenicity of CLL cells may be useful in immunotherapeutic approaches to this disease. Since Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are major regulators of innate immunity and initiation of adaptive immunity, we studied the effects of viral pathogen associated molecular pattern agonists (that are recognized by TLRs) on the costimulatory phenotype and function of CLL cells. CLL cells (especially those with high endogenous expression of CD38) responded to TLR7-activating imidazoquinolines and guanosine analogs by increasing costimulatory molecule expression, producing inflammatory cytokines, and becoming more sensitive to killing by cytotoxic effectors. Additional activation of protein kinase C pathways increased the ability to stimulate T-cell proliferation, blocked phosphorylation of the transcription factor, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)3, and resulted in the acquisition of a dendritic cell surface phenotype by TLR7-activated CLL cells. Normal B cells also responded to TLR7 activation by increasing costimulatory molecule expression and cytokine production. These findings suggest a potential role for TLR7 agonists in CLL immunotherapy."
2146	"Denileukin diftitox (ONTAK; Seragen Inc, San Diego, CA) is a fusion protein designed to direct the cytocidal action of diphtheria toxin to cells that overexpress the IL-2 receptor. The human IL-2 receptor exists in three isoforms:  low (CD25), intermediate (CD122/CD132), and high (CD25/CD122/CD132) affinity. The high-affinity form of this receptor is expressed on activated T lymphocytes, activated B lymphocytes, and activated macrophages. A number of leukemias and lymphomas, including cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, express a component of the receptor. Ex vivo studies have shown that denileukin diftitox interacts with the high- and intermediate-affinity IL-2 receptor on the cell surface and undergoes internalization. Subsequent cleavage in the endosome releases the diphtheria toxin into the cytosol, which then inhibits cellular protein synthesis, resulting in rapid cell death. This article examines the clinical profile and potential benefits of denileukin diftitox in the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and other hematologic disorders."
2147	"The rituximab antibody is a genetically engineered chimeric murine/human monoclonal antibody directed against the CD20 antigen found on the surface of normal and malignant B lymphocytes. Rituximab is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory, low-grade or follicular, CD20-positive, B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Rituximab is also commonly used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, and immune or idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Rituximab is an effective treatment for primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma and other cutaneous lymphomas. Rituximab is an effective treatment for mixed cryoglobulinemia. Rituximab is a promising treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus, dermatomyositis, pemphigus, vasculitis, and a variety of hematologic diseases. Black-box warnings on rituximab include fatal infusion reactions, tumor lysis syndrome, and severe mucocutaneous reactions. A variety of cardiac, pulmonary, renal, and hematologic  side effects can occur. It commonly causes mild cutaneous side effect and rarely  has caused paraneoplastic pemphigus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, lichenoid dermatitis, vesiculobullous dermatitis, and toxic epidermal necrolysis."
2148	"We searched for cell-surface-associated proteins overexpressed on B cell chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to use as therapeutic antibody targets. Antibodies binding the immunosuppressive molecule CD200 were identified by cell panning of an antibody phage display library derived from rabbits immunized with primary CLL cells. B cells from 87 CLL patients exhibited 1.6- to 5.4-fold cell-surface up-regulation of CD200 relative to normal B cells. An effect of increased CD200 expression by CLL cells on the immune system was evaluated in mixed lymphocyte reactions. Addition of primary CLL but not normal B cells to macrophages and T cells downregulated the Th1 response, as seen by a 50-95% reduction in secreted IL-2 and IFN-gamma. Antibodies to CD200 prevented downregulation of the Th1 response in most B cell CLL samples evaluated, indicating abrogation of the CD200/CD200R interaction can be sufficient to restore the Th1 response. A disease-progression-associated shift of the immune response from Th1 to Th2 has been observed in numerous cancers. Because this cytokine shift is also believed to promote the induction of regulatory T cells, reverting the immune response to  Th1 through direct targeting of the cancer cells may provide therapeutic benefits in CLL by encouraging a cytotoxic T cell response."
2149	"PURPOSE: Several new prognostic factors predicting rapid disease progression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have been identified, including unmutated Ig V(H) mutational status, del(11)(q23), del(17)(p13.1), and p53 mutations. To date, the impact of these same prognostic factors have not been examined relative to treatment outcome with chemoimmunotherapy. METHODS: We examined the impact of these new prognostic factors on predicting treatment outcome in symptomatic, untreated CLL patients who received chemoimmunotherapy with fludarabine and rituximab as part of a completed, randomized phase II study, Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 9712. RESULTS: Eighty-eight patients treated as part of CALGB 9712 had detailed prognostic factor assessment performed. Using Ig V(H) mutational status to classify risk, there was no association between complete response rate with either unmutated Ig V(H) mutational status or high-risk interphase cytogenetics.  However, the median progression-free survival (PFS; P = .048) and overall survival (OS; P = .01) were shorter among the Ig V(H) unmutated patients as compared with the Ig V(H) mutated patients. Using the hierarchical classification of Döhner, PFS (P = .005) and OS (P = .004) were significantly longer as the classification moved from high risk [del (11)(q22.3) or del (17)(p13.1)] to low risk. CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that high-risk CLL patients characterized by Ig V(H) unmutated (> or = 98%) or high-risk interphase cytogenetics, including either del(17p) or del(11q), appear to have a shorter PFS and OS with chemoimmunotherapy. Larger prospective studies will be required to determine the  independent influence of Ig V(H) mutational status and interphase cytogenetics on treatment outcome."
2150	"Treatments for hematological malignancies have improved considerably over the past decade, but the growing therapeutic arsenal has not benefited adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) patients. Oncolytic viruses such as vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) have recently emerged as a potential treatment of solid tumors and leukemias in vitro and in vivo. In the current study, we investigated the ability of VSV to lyse primary human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-infected T-lymphocytes from patients with ATL. Ex vivo primary ATL cells were permissive for VSV and underwent rapid oncolysis in a time-dependent manner. Importantly, VSV infection showed neither viral replication nor oncolysis in HTLV-1-infected,  nonleukemic cells from patients with HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), and in naive CD4(+) T-lymphocytes from normal individuals or in ex vivo cell samples from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Interestingly, activation of primary CD4(+) T-lymphocytes with anti-CD3/CD28 monoclonal antibody, and specifically with anti-CD3, was sufficient to induce limited viral replication and oncolysis. However, at a similar level of T-cell activation, VSV replication was increased fourfold in ATL cells compared to activated CD4(+) T-lymphocytes, emphasizing the concept that VSV targets genetic defects unique to tumor cells to facilitate its replication. In conclusion, our findings provide the first essential information for the development of a VSV-based treatment for ATL."
2151	"In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), chromosomes usually evade detailed cytogenetic analyses because cells poorly respond to the traditionally used set of mitogens. We applied novel technologies, such as stimulation of CLL cells either with CD40 ligand or with a combination of CpG-oligodeoxynucleotides and IL-2, to increase the frequency of metaphase spreads for detailed chromosome analysis in 96 patients with CLL. This approach revealed that translocations occurred in 33 of 96 (34%) of our patients with CLL. The presence of translocations defined a new prognostic subgroup because these patients have significantly shorter median treatment-free survival (24 months vs 106 months; P  < .001) and significantly inferior overall survival (OS; median, 94 months) than  patients without translocations (346 months; P < .001). In multivariate analysis-including Binet stage, complex karyotype, CD38 expression, and 17p deletions-translocation proved to be the prognostic marker with the highest impact for an unfavorable clinical outcome (P < .001). In summary, we identified  a new subgroup of patients with CLL defined by chromosomal trans-locations and poor prognosis. Our data may facilitate the identification of molecular events crucial for transforming activity in this disease and should have implications for risk-adapted clinical management of patients with CLL."
2152	"BACKGROUND: Combining therapeutics with single-agent activity has improved treatment for patients with many malignancies. Debate continues about the impact  of treatment on survival in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Purine analogues are the most active agents for treatment of patients with CLL. Recently, it was shown that a chemoimmunotherapy regimen combining fludarabine (F), cyclophosphamide (C), and rituximab (R) (FCR) was very effective in treating patients with recurrent and/or refractory CLL. The objective of the current analysis was to determine whether improvements in treatment have had an impact on survival for patients with CLL. METHODS: Three nonoverlapping, sequential groups of patients enrolled on Phase II studies who received treatment with F (n = 251 patients), FC (n = 111 patients),  or FCR (n = 143 patients) were analyzed. Pretreatment characteristics, responses  to treatment, and overall survival were compared. RESULTS: Patients who were treated with FCR had a higher complete remission rate  compared with patients who were treated with combined F and C or with F alone. Statistically significantly longer estimated median survival was noted for patients who received FCR. A Cox proportional hazards, multivariable model for overall survival that included all patients (n = 505) showed that patients who received FCR had longer survival (P < 0.0001) after adjusting for other significant (P < 0.05) pretreatment characteristics, including age, hemoglobin, beta-2 microglobulin, and the number of prior treatments. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this retrospective comparison of patients with recurrent and refractory CLL indicated a higher complete remission rate and the longest estimated survival for patients who were treated with FCR, providing the  basis for randomized clinical trials of this regimen."
2153	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia in the world. The  TCL1 gene, responsible for prolymphocytic T cell leukemia, is also overexpressed  in human B cell malignancies and overexpression of the Tcl1 protein occurs frequently in CLL. Aging transgenic mice that overexpress TCL1 under control of the mu immunoglobulin gene enhancer, develop a CD5+ B cell lymphoproliferative disorder mimicking human CLL and implicating TCL1 in the pathogenesis of CLL. In  the current study, we exploited this transgenic mouse to investigate two different CLL-related issues: potential treatment of CLL and characterization of  neoplasms that accompany CLL. We successfully transplanted CLL cells into syngeneic mice that led to CLL development in the recipient mice. This approach allowed us to verify the involvement of the Tcl1/Akt/mTOR biochemical pathway in  the disease by testing the ability of a specific pharmacologic agent, rapamycin,  to slow CLL. We also showed that 36% of these transgenic mice were affected by solid malignancies, in which the expression of the Tcl1 protein was absent. These findings indicate that other oncogenic mechanism(s) may be involved in the development of solid tumors in Emu-TCL1 transgenic mice."
2154	"P2X(7) is a receptor for extracellular nucleotides expressed by different normal  cell types. P2X(7) triggering may result in stimulation of cell proliferation or  induction of apoptosis depending on the level of activation. P2X(7) expression and function in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia has been shown to correlate with disease severity. Here, we have asked the question of whether P2X(7) is expressed and functional in neuroblastoma, a pediatric tumor of neuroectodermal origin. P2X(7) was detected both in primary neuroblastoma tumors and in neuroblastoma cell lines. In the latter cells, P2X(7) stimulation by ATP was found to trigger (a) increased intracellular calcium fluxes, (b) plasma membrane  depolarization, and (c) formation of a nonselective plasma membrane permeable pore. In contrast to the usual response typically observed in the majority of cell types, P2X(7) in vitro stimulation did not induce caspase-3 activation or apoptosis of neuroblastoma cells but rather supported their proliferation. Growth stimulation was partially due to substance P release from nucleotide-activated neuroblastoma cells. Therefore, neuroblastoma cells seem to have molded P2X(7) function to their advantage in two ways (i.e., by silencing P2X(7) proapoptotic activity and by coupling P2X(7) stimulation to release of locally acting trophic  factors)."
2155	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by a clonal accumulation of mature neoplastic B cells indicating disruption of apoptosis. Restriction Landmark Genome Scanning was done to identify novel target genes silenced by CpG island methylation in CLL. Secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (SFRP4), a negative regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway, was found to be frequently methylated in CLL samples. Wnt signaling has been shown to control normal apoptotic behavior and is required for normal B-cell development whereas aberrant activation of this pathway has been observed in CLL. We show aberrant DNA methylation and silencing of SFRP4, as well as of additional SFRP family members, in primary CLL samples. Induction of their expression in a dose-dependent manner following treatment with a demethylating agent, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, was shown. Of the five SFRP family members studied in detail, SFRP1 was hypermethylated and down-regulated in all CLL patient samples studied, suggesting that this epigenetic event is a critical step during leukemogenesis. Our results suggest that silencing of SFRPs by CpG island methylation is one possible mechanism contributing to aberrant activation of Wnt  signaling pathway in CLL."
2156	"Aurora-A and hMPS1 are kinases involved in spindle checkpoint and centrosome duplication regulation and whose alterations have been associated with cell transformation and chromosome instability in different tumor models. In this study, we have examined the possible alterations of these genes in 58 mantle cell lymphomas (MCLs) and 4 MCL-related cell lines. Aurora-A was also examined in 46 diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCLs). Aurora-A and hMPS1 mRNA expression levels were related to tumor proliferative activity. Interestingly, a MCL case with the highest number or chromosomal imbalances also showed an extremely high value of Aurora-A mRNA expression. No Aurora-A gene amplifications were detected  in any tumor or cell line, whereas hemizygous hMPS1 gene deletions were observed  in 23% of MCLs and 3 of the 4 cell lines. However, no expression alterations or gene mutations were detected in these cases. The Aurora-A proposed cancer susceptibility polymorphic variant (P31I) was observed with a similar frequency in MCL, DLBCL, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and in the 431 healthy controls. However, the 3 MCLs and 4 DLBCLs with the homozygous variant of this polymorphism had particular clinical characteristics with an unusual early-age presentation and second epithelial malignancies in MCL and extranodal origin in DLBCL. These findings indicate that Aurora-A and hMPS1 aberrations are uncommon in aggressive  lymphomas but Aurora-A overexpression may contribute to numerical chromosomal alterations in occasional MCL. Although the Aurora-A P31I polymorphic variant is  not directly involved in a genetic predisposition to these lymphomas, it may modulate the clinical presentation of these tumors."
2160	"Monoclonal antibodies are among the most rapidly expanding class of therapeutics  for cancer treatment. Monoclonal antibodies targeting non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), Her-2/neu highly expressing metastatic breast cancer, colorectal cancer, acute myelogenous leukemia, and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have received FDA approval. Promising new targets for antibody therapy include cellular growth factor receptors, mediators of tumor-driven neo-angiogenesis, as  well as host negative immunoregulatory checkpoints that impede an effective immune response to neoplasia. Antibody efficacy has been increased by genetic engineering to humanize the antibodies and to increase their effector functions including antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Furthermore, antibodies have  been armed with cytokines, chemotherapeutic agents, toxins, and radionuclides to  augment their efficacy as tumor cytotoxic agents. As a consequence of these advances, 30 years after their first development, monoclonal antibodies have become an important standard approach for the therapy of neoplasia with 19 therapeutic monoclonal antibodies now approved by the FDA including 8 for the treatment of cancer."
2161	"This prospective study was performed to determine whether gentamicin can be prescribed routinely to patients with spinal cord injury undergoing urologic procedures, or whether antibiotic therapy must be selected on the basis of recent urine microbiologic test results. Between January 2004 and June 2005, procedures  were performed on 38 patients, all of whom were prescribed antibiotics on the basis of a microbiology report. Sixteen patients who underwent urologic surgery during 2003 and received gentamicin empirically served as a control group. The patients' clinical course was monitored for postprocedure sepsis. Only 12 patients received gentamicin as the sole antibiotic; 10 patients required an additional antimicrobial for urine samples that grew more than 1 organism and contained bacteria resistant to gentamicin; 26 patients needed antibiotics other  than gentamicin for gentamicin-resistant uropathogens. Three patients with organisms sensitive to gentamicin as well as another antibiotic received an agent considered less nephrotoxic than gentamicin. After the procedure, sepsis occurred in only 1 patient, a man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. Three control group patients developed a fever  in excess of 39 degrees C. One of these patients did not require a change of antibiotic, another patient recovered after 3 changes of antibiotic, and the third patient recovered from septicemia after receiving ventilatory support. Antibiotics should be prescribed on the basis of recent urine microbiologic test  results, and empiric therapy with gentamicin should be avoided in patients with spinal cord injury who are scheduled to undergo urologic procedures."
2162	"Monoclonal antibodies have led to a profound shift in the therapeutic landscape of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Alemtuzumab and rituximab remain the most  active antibodies, and their single-agent activity has been established in previously untreated and relapsed patients with CLL. Higher response rates and a  better quality of response through eradication of minimal residual disease have been reported with monoclonal antibody combinations. Chemoimmunotherapy regimens  are being actively explored in frontline CLL therapy, and numerous combination regimens have been investigated in relapse. New and more effective therapies are  shifting the focus from palliation to treatment algorithms with curative attempt. Challenges for monoclonal antibody combinations in the future include: (1) defining appropriate patient populations for combination therapies; (2) assessing the impact of pretreatment biologic prognostic factors; (3) enhancing eradication of minimal residual disease; and (4) reassessing response criteria in CLL."
2163	"BL22 is a recombinant immunotoxin containing a truncated form of the bacterial toxin Pseudomonas exotoxin A attached to an Fv fragment of an anti-CD22 monoclonal antibody. Its mechanism of action involves binding to CD22, being internalized into the target cell by endocytosis, being processed to generate a free toxin fragment which is translocated into the cytoplasm, and finally induction of cell death by catalytic inactivation of elongation factor 2. In phase-I testing BL22 was very active in chemoresistant hairy-cell leukemia (HCL), with 19 (61%) of 31 patients achieving complete remission (CR). The low blood counts (cytopenias) which are characteristic of HCL improved in all complete and  partial responders. Dose-limiting toxicity in HCL was due to a reversible hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), observed only during cycles 2 or 3. Already under way are a phase-II trial in HCL and phase-I trials in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) administering BL22 in a modified protocol in an effort to prevent HUS."
2164	"In this review we aim to provide a historical overview of the immunotherapeutic approaches which have been developed for the treatment of hematological malignancies. After briefly summarizing the development of the theory of cancer immune surveillance, we describe how initial studies discovering the efficacy of  the immune-mediated graft-versus-tumor effects after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation led to new transplantation approaches (termed non-myeloablative transplantation) relying almost exclusively on graft-versus-tumor effects for tumor eradication. We then summarize important steps in the development of tumor vaccines and autologous adoptive immunotherapy  in patients with hematological malignancies. Finally, we describe historical discoveries leading to the recent success with monoclonal antibodies as treatment for lymphomas, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and acute myeloid leukemia."
2165	"Rituximab (MabThera, Rituxan is an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that induces lysis and apoptosis of normal and malignant human B cells, and sensitizes malignant B cells to the cytotoxic effect of chemotherapy. In phase III trials in patients with indolent or aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), intravenous rituximab in combination with chemotherapy was more effective as first- or second-line therapy than chemotherapy alone in terms of tumor remission and patient survival. Likewise, in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), rituximab in combination with chemotherapy appeared more effective than chemotherapy alone as either first- or second-line treatment. In addition, rituximab maintenance therapy was shown to significantly prolong tumor remission  and patient survival in patients with indolent B-cell NHL or CLL. The combination of rituximab with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone (CHOP) was cost effective as first-line therapy for advanced-stage diffuse large  B-cell NHL compared with CHOP alone. Rituximab, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy, was generally well tolerated in patients with NHL or CLL. Overall, rituximab in combination with chemotherapy, is a valuable option for first- and second-line therapy in patients with advanced-stage indolent or aggressive B-cell NHL, and possibly those with B-cell CLL, and is included in current treatment guidelines for these indications. The drug is also potentially  useful as maintenance therapy in patients with indolent B-cell NHL or CLL."
2166	"Recent advances in understanding the complex biology of the ubiquitin-proteasome  pathway have led to the identification of many potentially 'drugable' targets within this pathway. One such inhibitor, bortezomib (formerly known as PS341), has proven to be an effective reversible inhibitor of the chymotryptic protease in the 26S proteasome. Proteasome inhibitors represent a new approach for the treatment of many forms of cancer, especially select hematological malignancies.  The proteasome plays an important role in regulating the availability of different intracellular proteins. While only some of the consequences of inhibiting this activity are understood, a growing amount of data suggests that inhibition of the proteasome is associated with a remarkable panoply of different biological effects that include cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, changes in cell surface adhesion markers, and an increased sensitivity to standard chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Bortezomib was recently approved by the US FDA for the treatment of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. In addition, bortezomib has also shown encouraging results in the treatment of select types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs). Ongoing phase II clinical trials in pretreated patients are exploring bortezomib in different histologies of NHLs and in combination with conventional chemotherapy. Preliminary data have shown interesting activity, especially in patients with follicular, marginal zone, and mantle cell lymphoma;  in these populations, durable complete and partial remissions have been reported. The toxicity profile of this drug, coupled with its unusual mechanism of action,  make it a potentially important agent warranting further preclinical and clinical attention. However, many unanswered questions remain regarding how best to employ bortezomib in the conventional treatment of lymphoma. The apparent lack of activity in different subtypes of lymphoma, such as small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, as well  as a lack of understanding about the best way to combine bortezomib with standard therapies for indolent NHLs, raises important questions regarding the mechanistic basis for its effects. We will undoubtedly need to understand these effects better in order to fully exploit the potential of this new class of drugs."
2167	"Because the causes of most lymphoid neoplasms remain unknown, comparison of incidence patterns by disease subtype may provide critical clues for future etiologic investigations. We therefore conducted a comprehensive assessment of 114,548 lymphoid neoplasms diagnosed during 1992-2001 in 12 Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) registries according to the internationally  recognized World Health Organization (WHO) lymphoma classification introduced in  2001. Cases coded in International Classification of Diseases for Oncology, Second Edition (ICD-O-2), were converted to ICD-O-3 for WHO subtype assignment. Age-specific and age-adjusted rates were compared by sex and race (white, black,  Asian). Age-adjusted trends in incidence were estimated by sex and race using weighted least squares log-linear regression. Diverse incidence patterns and trends were observed by lymphoid neoplasm subtype and population. In the elderly  (75 years or older), rates of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and follicular lymphoma increased 1.4% and 1.8% per year, respectively, whereas rates of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) declined 2.1% per year. Although whites bear the highest incidence burden for most lymphoid neoplasm subtypes, most notably for hairy cell leukemia and follicular lymphoma, black predominance was observed for plasma cell and T-cell neoplasms. Asians have considerably lower rates than whites and blacks for CLL/SLL and Hodgkin lymphoma. We conclude that the striking differences in incidence patterns by histologic subtype strongly suggest that there is etiologic heterogeneity among lymphoid neoplasms and support the pursuit of epidemiologic analysis by subtype."
2168	"Previous studies showed that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells exhibit certain mitochondrial abnormalities including mtDNA mutations, increased superoxide generation, and aberrant mitochondrial biogenesis, which are associated with impaired apoptosis and reduced sensitivity to fludarabine. Here we report that CLL cells and multiple myeloma cells are highly sensitive to brefeldin A, an inhibitor of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to Golgi protein transport currently being developed as a novel anticancer agent in a prodrug formulation. Of importance, brefeldin A effectively induced apoptosis in fludarabine-refractory CLL cells. Disruption of protein trafficking by brefeldin  A caused the sequestration of the prosurvival factors APRIL and VEGF in the ER, leading to abnormal ER swelling and a decrease in VEGF secretion. Such ER stress  and blockage of secretory protein traffic eventually resulted in Golgi collapse,  activation of caspases, and cell death. Notably, the cellular sensitivity to this compound appeared to be independent of p53 status. Taken together, these findings suggest that malignant B cells may be highly dependent on ER-Golgi protein transport and that targeting this process may be a promising therapeutic strategy for B-cell malignancies, especially for those that respond poorly to conventional treatments."
2170	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by the accumulation  of long-lived mature B cells with the distinctive phenotype CD19(hi) CD5+ CD23+ IgM(lo), which are refractory to apoptosis. An increased level of apoptosis has been observed on treatment of human B-CLL cells with protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors, suggesting that this family of protein kinases mediate survival signals within B-CLL cells. Therefore, to investigate the ability of individual PKC isoforms to transform developing B cells, we stably expressed plasmids encoding PKC mutants in fetal liver-derived hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC)  from wild-type mice and then cultured them in B-cell generation systems in vitro  and in vivo. Surprisingly, we noted that expression of a plasmid-encoding dominant-negative PKC alpha (PKC alpha-KR) in HPCs and subsequent culture both in vitro and in vivo resulted in the generation of a population of cells that displayed an enhanced proliferative capacity over untransfected cells and phenotypically resemble human B-CLL cells. In the absence of growth factors and stroma, these B-CLL-like cells undergo cell cycle arrest and, consistent with their ability to escape growth factor withdrawal-induced apoptosis, exhibited elevated levels of Bcl-2 expression. These studies therefore identify a unique oncogenic trigger for the development of a B-CLL-like disease resulting from the  subversion of PKC alpha signaling. Our findings uncover novel avenues not only for the study of the induction of leukemic B cells but also for the development of therapeutic drugs to combat PKC alpha-regulated transformation events."
2173	"The purine nucleoside analogs (PNA) form an important group of cytotoxic drugs active in the treatment of neoplastic and autoimmune diseases. Three of them, fludarabine (FA), cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, 2-CdA) and pentostatin (2'-deoxycoformycin, DCF) have established clinical activity in hematological malignancies and have been approved by FDA. These drugs are also investigated in  some autoimmune diosorders. Recently four novel PNA: clofarabine (CAFdA), nelarabine, immucillin H (BCX-1777, forodesine) and 8-chloroadenosine (8-Cl-Ado)  have been synthesized and introduced into clinical trials. All these drugs have chemical structure similar to adenosine or guanosine, however, the mechanism of their action is different. FA, 2-CdA and CAFdA mainly require phosphorylation by  deoxynucleoside salvage pathways. The cytotoxic effect exerts the triphosphate metabolites, which are incorporated into DNA, and finally lead to programmed cell death. In contrast, DCF does not need to be phosphorylated and results in an increase of plasma deoxyadenosine (dAdo) levels and intracellular deoxyadenosine  triphosphate (dATP). Nelarabine is an arabinosylguanine (ara-G) prodrug, which after conversion to ara-G is phosphorylated to ara-G triphosphate (ara-GTP). Accumulation of ara-GTP finally leads to apoptosis. Forodesine is a purine nucleoside phosphatase (PNP) inhibitor which blocks intracellular deoxyguanine (dGuo) cleaving to guanine (Guo), but instead converts it to deoxyguanosine triphosphate (dGTP), and similarly to other PNA resulting in apoptosis. 8-chloroadenosine (8-Cl-Ado) is a ribonucleoside analog. The mechanism of its action is quite different from other PNA and remains poorly understood. However,  it is known that the drug inhibits RNA synthesis, but not DNA. These agents have  significant cytotoxic activity against lymphoid and myeloid malignant cells. Moreover, they have deleterious effects on the normal resting lymphocytes. They result in prolonged lymphocyte depletion especially in the CD4 subset of T-cells. Several clinical trials have demonstrated that PNA used alone or in combination with other cytotoxic drugs or monoclonal antibodies shows good efficacy and acceptable toxicity profile in the treatment of lymphoid malignancies. 2-CdA and  DCF are drugs of choice in the treatment of hairy cell leukemia. FA and 2-CdA have significant clinical activity in low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 2-CdA exhibits some activity in progressive multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune disorders. This review will summarize current knowledge concerning the mechanism of action, pharmacological properties, clinical activity and toxicity of PNA accepted for use in clinical practice as well as new agents available for clinical trials."
2174	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disease with a highly variable clinical course; some patients never need treatment, while others require intensive treatment early after diagnosis. Some new prognostic factors, such as immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgVH) mutational status, zeta-associated protein (ZAP-70) and CD38 expression in leukemic cells were introduced to identify attenuated versus progressive types of CLL bearing the potential to facilitate risk-adapted treatment strategies. So, the aim of this work is to evaluate the clinical value of ZAP-70 and CD38 as predictors of disease progression. We assessed the expression of these markers by flowcytometry in 38 patients with CLL and correlated their levels with genetic abnormalities detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and the clinical outcome. We found that 18 patients (47.4 %) were positive for ZAP-70 (> or = 20%) and 16 patients (42.1%) were positive for CD38 (> or = 20%). Positive ZAP-70 and CD38 status were associated with an unfavorable clinical course including high leukocytic count, lymphocytosis, high lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) serum level, advanced disease stage, trisomy 12 and del (11q); negative ZAP-70 and CD38 status were correlated  with del (13q). The treatment-free survival time was 30 months for ZAP-70-positive patients and 18 months for ZAP-70-nagative patients (p < 0.01). Combined analysis of ZAP-70 and CD38 yielded discordant results in 10 patients (26.3 %), whereas 16 patients (42.1%) were concordantly negative and 12 patients  (31.6%) were concordantly positive for ZAP-70 and CD38 expression. Median treatment-free survival times in patients whose leukemic cells were ZAP-70+CD38+  was 27 months as compared to 100 months in patients with a ZAP-70(-)CD38(-) status. In patients with discordant ZAP-70/CD38 results, the median treatment-free survival time was 40 months. Thus, ZAP-70 and CD38 expression analyses provide complementary prognostic information and allow distinguishing the patients groups with the most favorable prognosis as well as those with the worst. The current findings suggest that both ZAP-70 and CD38 protein expression  should be assessed in patients with CLL for the definition of prognostic subgroups."
2175	"OBJECTIVES: Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) is an important growth and anti-apoptotic factor for the cancer cells in several malignancies and in multiple myeloma recent studies support the hypothesis of a role for IGF-1 in disease progression; however, clinico-biological relevance of IGF-1 was never studied in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using a quantitative sandwich immunoassay technique (ELISA) (Quantikine, Human IGF-1 and IGFBP-3, R&D Systems), we measured the concentration of IGF-1 and its major binding protein IGF-binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) in serum drawn at the time of diagnosis from 77 Binet stage A CLL patients. RESULTS: Either IGF-1 or IGFBP-3 were significantly decreased compared with healthy age- and sex-matched controls (P < 0.0001 for both; Mann-Whitney test). Serum levels of IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 paralleled each other (P = 0.002); in contrast, no significant correlation was found between serum levels of IGF-1 and clinico-hematological variables including age (P = 0.253), sex (P = 0.270), Rai clinical substages (P = 0.140), lactate dehydrogenase (P = 0.956), beta2-microglobulin (P = 0.368), lymphocyte count (P = 0.703) and lymphocyte doubling time (LDT, P = 0.233). When correlation were attempted with circulating  levels of angiogenic cytokines such as vascular endothelial growth factor (P = 0.971), basic fibroblastic growth factor (P = 0.695), angiogenin (P = 0.282) or adhesion molecules such as vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (P = 0.318), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (P = 0.883) and platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (P = 0.772) similar results were found. Serum levels of IGF-1 were further evaluated as a dichotomous variable with respect to progression-free survival (PFS), an endpoint surrogate for overall survival in early B-cell CLL. The best separation of curves was seen with the cutoff point at the 75th percentile of IGF-1 levels (i.e., 93 pg/mL). Median PFS was 63 months in the patient group with low IGF-1, compared with a median PFS of 40 months in the remaining patients (P = 0.03). In the multivariate analysis performed including variables significant at univariate analysis [i.e. Rai substage (P = 0.002); LDT  (P = 0.004), IGF-1 (P = 0.01)], only Rai substage retained prognostic significance (P = 0.006). However, after removing from analysis LDT (only six of  77 had an LDT < 12 months), either IGF-1 or Rai substage entered the model at a significant level (P = 0.03 and P = 0.01, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: IGF-1 did not correlate with markers of tumor burden or clinical status in CLL thus suggesting that levels of this cytokine do not reflect the intrinsic malignancy of disease. Results of the present study highlight, however, its involvement in mechanisms of disease progression in early CLL."
2176	"Telomeric sequences, located at the very end of the chromosomes, compensate for the chromosomal shortening as it happens after each round of cell division. Telomeric sequences influence the progress of cellular senescence and cancer progression. It has been reported that telomeres are shortened in acute leukemias where the cell turnover is high. B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a particularly interesting haematological malignancy in regard to telomere dynamics because most of the malignant cells in CLL are mitotically inactive. In this study, we analysed the telomere length in patients with B-cell CLL in a comparison with the control group by using ddPRINS technique. Twenty patients with CLL and four healthy donors as a control group were included. We found short telomeres and no detectable telomeric repeats at the sites of chromosome fusion.  We hypothesise that the telomeric erosion in CLL may reflect the dominance of malignant cells with an abnormally long life span. These cells may have encountered many antigenic stimulants in the past and hence underwent multiple clonal expansions. Our findings imply that shortened telomeres in CLL may be reflecting the "history" of the disease and serve as an independent prognostic factor."
2177	"OBJECTIVE: Tumor-associated antigens (TAA) are the basis for antigen-specific immunotherapy. The human homolog of the murine double-minute 2 oncoprotein (MDM2) is a putative TAA because it is overexpressed in several malignancies, including  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells compared with normal B lymphocytes. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Autologous, MDM2-specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A2-restricted T cells were identified using interferon (IFN)-gamma-ELISPOT  assays and HLA-A2/dimer-peptide staining after 4 weeks of in vitro culture. RESULTS: Using native CLL cells as antigen-presenting cells (APCs), we demonstrate the generation of MDM2-specific T cells in 7/12 CLL patients that recognized specifically the MDM2-derived peptide MDM2(81-88) bound to HLA-A2-dimers while they were inactive against an unrelated MAGE-3 peptide (p = 0.002). After 4 weeks, up to 32.3% of the expanded CD8(+) T cells specifically recognized MDM2(81-88) by HLA-A2-dimer/peptide staining and up to 0.9% of all T cells expanded reacted specifically against this MDM2-derived peptide in the IFN-gamma-ELISPOT assay. If T cells were not expandable using native CLL cells as APC, leukemic cells were stimulated with CD40-ligand to increase the antigen-presenting capacity. This resulted in successful generation of MDM2-specific T cells in three of five remaining cases tested. Additionally, the  factor that correlated best with successful generation of antigen-specific T cells in CLL patients was the ability of APCs to secrete IFN-gamma upon stimulation. CONCLUSION: In summary, MDM2(81-88) was shown for the first time in humans to elicit a functional autologous immune response. MDM2 was demonstrated to be naturally processed and presented as TAA in primary human CLL cells enabling expansion of functional autologous tumor-specific T cells."
2178	"There has been evidence that familial factors play a certain role in some cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. It is possible in one or more family members to  observe chronic lymphocytic leukemia alone, other malignant disorders or combination of both of them.THE AIM: of our study was to analyze the association  of family history of malignances with the onset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a case-control study through direct inquiry of the families of 126 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The control group consisted of 124 patients with benignant disorders. For statistic data processing we used Fisher's exact test in 2x2 table and Kaplan-Meier survival analyses. RESULTS: 35.71% of the investigated individuals had first degree relatives with malignant disorders, while in the control group their percentage was 17.7%. Significant correlation between positive family history of malignancy and the onset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia was found (P = 0.0016). The risk of development of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in individuals with family history of malignant disorders was 1.69 times higher than in individuals with negative family history RR = 1.697, 95% C.I. [1.177; 2.448]. There was no significant difference in the general survival between groups with positive and negative family history of malignancy. Stomach cancer was particularly often diagnosed in  families with individuals affected with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Other lymphoproliferative disorders were also registered in 3.9% of the families from the control group. CONCLUSION: Our data show that there is a high risk of getting chronic lymphocytic leukemia in close relatives of affected individuals with malignant disorders. There was no data for greater aggressiveness of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in patients with positive family history of malignancy."
2179	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The mutational status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes (IGVH) is a strong indicator of prognosis in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Since the determination of the IGVH mutation status is very labor-intensive, alternative prognostically relevant markers would facilitate CLL diagnostics. DESIGN AND METHODS: Ten genes were selected from previously published gene expression profiling studies based on their differential expression in IGVH mutated versus unmutated cases of CLL, and tested with real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) in unpurified samples from 130 CLL patients. To ascertain potential contaminating effects by normal hematopoietic cells, the expression levels of the selected genes were determined in normal monocytes, B cells, T cells, NK cells and granulocytes. RESULTS: The selected genes, i.e., ZAP70, LPL, SPG20, ADAM29, NRIP1, AKAP12, DMD, SEPT10, TPM2 and CLECSF2, showed prognostic significance. In multivariate logistic regression analysis expression levels of LPL, ZAP70, ADAM29 and SEPT10 were the most predictive for IGVH mutational status. In univariate analysis the expression of LPL was the best predictor. For survival, expression of LPL was the strongest prognostic factor. In combination with the three cytogenetic markers associated with a poor prognosis, i.e., deletions 17p13, 11q22 and trisomy 12, expression of LPL and IGVH mutational status performed equally well with regard to their predictive value for survival, both being more predictive than ZAP70. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that LPL expression is a  predictor for survival in CLL, and for this purpose is as good as IGVH mutational status and more reliable than ZAP70 expression when tested in unpurified CLL samples."
2180	"Autologous stem-cell transplantation is widely accepted as effective therapy for  patients with relapsed aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Although 40-60% of younger patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma can expect to be cured, substantial numbers will experience a relapse. In addition, certain histologic subtypes are associated with particularly poor prognoses with combination chemotherapy alone (e.g., mantle cell lymphoma). Relatively few of these patients will experience long-term responses. Although other NHL subtypes are associated with more favorable prognoses in terms of overall survival, they are rarely cured (e.g., follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia). Allogeneic transplantation has been increasingly utilized in patients with lymphoid malignancies but is associated with high toxicity. Recently, reduced-intensity conditioning regimens have shown encouraging results, attributed to graft-versus-lymphoma effects. This article discusses changes in the way autologous and allogeneic transplants may be carried out in the future to treat patients with lymphoid malignancies."
2181	"Clinical and laboratory investigations are driving the rapid change in treatments for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Randomized trials have demonstrated superior activity for fludarabine combined with cyclophosphamide versus single-agent fludarabine or chlorambucil as initial treatment. Chemoimmunotherapy holds promise for further improvement and is being tested in randomized trials. New combinations and agents are being identified and tested. Eliminating minimal residual disease is a therapeutic endpoint that may prove to  prolong survival and is also under investigation in prospective clinical trials.  Work continues toward improving survival and potentially curing patients of this  disease."
2182	"The individual prognosis of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is extremely variable. Although clinical stages remain the basis for assessing prognosis in CLL, a number of biological markers, particularly serum markers, cytogenetic abnormalities, IgVH mutations, CD38 and ZAP-70 expression in leukemic cells offer important, independent prognostic information. Before being incorporated into daily practice, however, these markers require standardization  and validation in large, prospective trials. Meanwhile, treatment of patients with CLL not included in clinical studies should be decided on the basis of classical NCI/CLL Working Group criteria. An important area of research in CLL prognostication is the identification of markers useful for predicting response to therapy and its duration. Among them, del(17p), reflecting P53 abnormalities,  is particularly important. Also relevant is del(11q), which points to ATM defects. There is also some correlation between IgVH mutational status, ZAP-70 and CD38 expression and response to therapy and its duration, although these relationships need further investigation. Finally, there is increasing evidence that response to therapy, particularly in those cases in which minimal residual disease is eradicated, is associated with longer survival."
2183	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has long been considered a disease of "accumulation," due to a presumed defect in programmed cell death. Recent data, however, suggest that B-CLL cells are born at a normal to an accelerated rate, with the rate of proliferation varying among patients. In addition, differences in birth rates, activation state, and inducibility appear to exist among subpopulations of cells within individual leukemic clones. The extent to which such dissimilarities influence clinical course and outcome is still unclear. This review examines the evidence supporting the existence of a proliferative compartment in B-CLL and the role that proliferating cells might play in the progression and evolution of this disease."
2184	"The mononuclear phagocyte system of human lymphoid tissue comprises macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). The heterogeneity of the non-DC mononuclear phagocyte  population in human lymphoid tissue has been little addressed. Here, we studied the expression of 2 monocyte-derived markers, CD14 and CD169 (sialoadhesin), in reactive human lymphoid tissue as well as in a series of 51 B-cell lymphomas by immunohistochemistry on paraffin-embedded tissue. We confirmed that lymph node sinusoidal monocyte-derived cells were the only population staining for CD169. Although most sinusoidal histiocytes also expressed CD14, monocyte-derived cells  with phagocytosis such as erythrophagocytosis, anthracosis, or tingible bodies macrophage lacked CD14 and CD169. Among B-cell lymphomas, splenic marginal zone lymphoma was the only one associated with an expansion of the CD14(+)CD169(+) cells in the cords. With respect to nodal B-cell lymphomas, CD14(+) cells were rare among B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia, follicular lymphoma (FL), mantle cell  lymphoma (MCL). However, strikingly, we found a strong expansion of CD14(+)CD169(-) cells in numerous diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCLs), except in cases associated with numerous mitoses, apoptotic bodies, and tingible bodies  macrophages. When cultivated in granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor/interleukin 4, DLBCL purified CD14(+) cells differentiate into plasmacytoid cells, expressing DC-specific intercellular adhesion molecule 3-grabbing nonintegrin, suggesting dendritic cell differentiation potential. Our  observation fits well with the lymph node and host response cluster signatures described in the gene profiling signatures of DLBCL. However, the role of this CD14(+) population that may constitute a microenvironment-related marker of this  subgroup of DLBCL remains to be determined."
2185	"Genetic immunization can be combined with hybridoma technology to generate high-affinity monoclonal antibodies (MAbs). A new anti-BCL-6 MAb (GI191E/A8) was  produced by cloning full-length BCL-6 cDNA into a eukaryotic vector and delivering this into mouse epidermis using a helium gene gun. A comparative study was made of the specificity and the effects of formalin fixation on immunohistochemistry quality of GI191E/A8 and two other anti-BCL-6 MAbs. To evaluate its possible application to differential diagnosis of lymphomas, two tissue microarrays (89 diffuse large B-cell lymphomas and 24 B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases) were stained with GI191E/A8 and another anti-BCL-6 MAb produced by conventional means. Using GI191E/A8, the detection of BCL-6 protein was significantly increased, and its specificity was independent of formalin-fixation time. Using automatic quantified analysis, the correlation between the two anti-BCL-6 MAbs tested was identical in cases with overexpression or absence of BCL-6. In cases with intermediate BCL-6 protein expression, detection with GI191E/A8 was more sensitive. A significant association of higher  BCL-6 expression and longer median overall survival times in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas was found. Using conventionally produced MAbs in the same patient group, the association was not significant."
2186	"Dysregulation of apoptosis, and thus the p14/DAP kinase/HDM2/p53/Apaf-1 pathway,  is potentially important in carcinogenesis. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), uncommon in the Chinese, is a disease characterized by impaired apoptosis, of the neoplastic lymphocytes. Hypermethylation of p14, DAP kinase and Apaf-1 was studied by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP) with primers for  methylated (M-MSP) and unmethylated (U-MSP) alleles in 50 diagnostic marrow samples from patients with CLL. Chinese CLL patients had an indolent course similar to Caucasians with median overall survival (OS) of 96 months, which was adversely affected by advanced Rai stage (projected 5-year OS = 72% and 39% for Rai < or = 2 and Rai > 2; P = 0.01). DAP kinase was methylated in 18 (36%) patients while p14 and Apaf-1 were completely unmethylated in all the primary CLL samples. There was no correlation between DAP kinase hypermethylation and age, sex, poor-risk karyotype, lymphocyte count and Rai stage at diagnosis. Projected  OS for patients with and without DAP kinase hypermethylation were 59 and 57% (P = 0.91). DAP kinase, but not p14 and Apaf-1, of the DAP kinase/p14/HDM2/p53/Apaf-1  pathway is frequently hypermethylated in CLL, but not of prognostic significance. Moreover Chinese patients with CLL share a similarly indolent clinical course, and this is the first comprehensive study on p14, DAP kinase and Apaf-1 hypermethylation in CLL."
2187	"OBJECTIVE: To study the pattern of small B cell lymphomas in Pakistan. METHODS: This descriptive study was carried out at the Aga Khan University Hospital pathology department including 1721 cases of Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma (NHL) diagnosed during a period of five years (1998-2002) and classified according to REAL/WHO classification. The antibodies used included Leukocyte Common Antigen (LCA), Pan B (CD20, CD79a), Pan T (UCHL-1), Bcl 2, Mib 1(Ki 67) and Cyclin D1 (Dako, Denmark). RESULTS: Out of the 1721 NHL cases, only 140 (8.1%) could be categorized as small B-cell NHL. The study group comprised small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (58 cases; 41.4%) followed by follicular lymphoma (46 cases; 32.9%), mantle cell lymphoma (15 cases; 10.7%), extra nodal marginal zone B cell  lymphoma of MALT type (15 cases; 10.7%), lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (5 cases; 3.6%) and splenic marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (1 case; 0.7%). No case of nodal  marginal zone lymphoma was diagnosed. The age ranged from 18 to 98 years with a mean and median of 54.64 and 58.50 years respectively. Small B-cell NHL was more  common in males; with male to female ratio of 2.1. Majority of the small B-cell NHL were nodal at presentation with a nodal to extranodal ratio of 3.4. CONCLUSION: It is concluded that the frequency of these small B-cell NHL is very  low in our population in contrast to the western literature. Further studies based on epidemiologic and etiological factors are required to look into this marked difference of occurrence of these indolent lymphomas."
2188	"The St. Vincent's Comprehensive Cancer Center (SVCCC) has a large multiple myeloma program in downtown New York City. The laboratory at SVCCC is an integral part of the diagnosing and monitoring of its myeloma patients. Circulating plasma cells are not a common finding in multiple myeloma. Being able to detect plasma cells in peripheral blood is important because they are a prognostic indicator that correlates with disease progression. Furthermore, the peripheral blood plasma cell population can demonstrate morphologic variability. Immature plasma cells, both plasmablasts and proplasmacytes are associated with more aggressive disease and shortened survival. We encountered 3 multiple myeloma patients with circulating immature plasma cells that appeared as distinct populations on our hematology analyzer's automated white blood cell (WBC) differential. The immature plasma cells, given their unique cellular characteristics, appeared in a common place within the WBC differential scatterplot in each patient. In our laboratory, we have utilized this common graphic pattern to screen for immature plasma cells. This pattern has proven to be a useful tool in our large population of multiple myeloma patients. We have also used examination of the scatterplots in other hematologic malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Using this review  policy, the laboratory has been able to achieve a smear review of 25% in our highly abnormal patient population."
2189	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a lymphoproliferative disease caused by impaired apoptosis regulation that leads to an abnormal survival and an accumulation of B-lymphocytes. Anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and proapoptotic Bax proteins are involved in the highly regulated mechanism of cell death. Bax and Bcl-2 intracellular levels were analyzed both in CD19+ and CD3+ cells from 28 B-CLL de  novo patients and compared with cells from healthy donors. Our results were expressed as a ratio (Bax/Bcl-2) obtained by dividing Bax mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) and Bcl-2 MFI; obviously, a lower ratio is associated with an anti-apoptotic status, while a higher index correlates to apoptosis activation. In CD19+ B-CLL cells, the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio was lower than in the CD19+ normal counterpart (1.3 versus 3.51; P<.05), mainly due to a Bcl-2 over expression (17.65 versus 9.02; P<.001). In CD3+ cells from B-CLL patients, the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio was lower than in normal CD3+ cells (7.89 versus 8.96; P<.005), most importantly as a result of Bax suppression (77.22 versus 96.63; P<.001). These study data show an apoptosis inhibition not only in CD19+ cells, but also in CD3+ cells, suggesting a pivotal role of T-cells in B-CLL pathogenesis."
2190	"Trisomy 12 can be seen in many different lymphoid neoplasms. However, many or most mature B-cell leukemias associated with isolated trisomy 12 are reported in  the literature as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or 'atypical CLL'. This study reports a case of a mature B-cell leukemia, morphologically and immunophenotypically similar to cases previously published as atypical CLL, in which cytogenetic evaluation revealed an isolated clonal trisomy 12 but no evidence of the mantle cell lymphoma-associated t(11;14)(q13;q32). Further analysis confirmed absence of cyclin-D1 expression. Subsequent lymph node biopsy  revealed evidence of large cell transformation of the underlying chronic lymphoproliferative disorder. Gene expression profiling of the initial peripheral blood sample using a cDNA micro-array of approximately 10,000 expressed genes revealed a close resemblance between the reported case and 2 cases of known mantle cell lymphoma. When further compared to 7 known 'typical' CLL cases, the reported case was classified as mantle cell lymphoma by hierarchical cluster analysis. The case reported here raises interesting questions regarding the nature of cases reported previously as trisomy 12-associated CLL and reinforces the fact that other leukemic lymphoproliferative disorders should be included in  the differential diagnosis of such cases. Further study is indicated to elucidate the nature and diversity of disorders previously reported as trisomy 12-associated chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
2191	"Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) is an unusual cause of anemia in patients with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. Here, we present two cases of PRCA, one associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and the other with splenic marginal zone lymphoma, in which the PRCA responded dramatically to treatment with rituximab. We then review the literature on PRCA in lymphoma and response to rituximab. PRCA associated with CLL or lymphoma may be another indication for rituximab therapy."
2192	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) CD38 expression is variable and may predict outcome. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) expression regulates CLL  cell apoptosis. IL-4 and IFN-gamma regulate B cell CD38 expression and NOS2 expression. We compared IL-4 and IFN-gamma serum levels between CLL patients and  normal individuals, and determined whether serum IL-4 and IFN-gamma levels correlated with CLL cell CD38 expression and NOS enzyme activity. IL-4 levels, but not IFN-gamma levels, differed between normal individuals and CLL patients. Furthermore, there was an association of IL-4 levels, but not IFN-gamma levels, with CD38 and NOS2 expression in CLL patients."
2194	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a common adult leukemia characterized by the accumulation of mature neoplastic B-lymphocytes. Typically, CLL follows an indolent course, with most patients surviving for many years. However, 10-20% of  CLL patients carry 11q23 chromosomal deletions and often exhibit a more severe disease course, with earlier onset of symptoms, shortened lymphocyte doubling time, poor response to therapy, and shortened survival. The molecular basis for 11q23 deletions resulting in a poor prognosis is currently poorly understood. The tumor suppressor gene, ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM, 11q22.3-23.1), is considered a likely candidate gene whose loss could result in the poor prognosis  associated with 11q23 deletion and is mutated in a significant percentage of CLL  cases. Recently, recombinant ATM expression in ATM-deficient cells was found to decrease transferrin receptor (TfR) expression, suggesting that deletion of the chromosomal region carrying ATM results in increased TfR expression. TfR imports  iron into cells, an event necessary for DNA synthesis and cell growth. Additionally, rapidly growing malignant cells, including lymphomas and CLL, often express high TfR levels. Based on this, we propose that one molecular mechanism by which 11q23 deletions confer a poor prognosis in CLL is via increased TfR expression secondary to ATM loss, resulting in the increased cellular iron import, and hence increased capacity for malignant growth. Our hypothesis may also partially explain why gallium, an atomically iron-like toxic metal that binds to transferrin and the TfR is incorporated into cells and was previously demonstrated to have anti-tumor activity in patients with lymphomas refractory to other chemotherapeutic treatments."
2195	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) may derive from either immunoglobulin V(H) gene unmutated (naïve) or mutated (antigen-experienced) post-germinal center B-cells. Richter's syndrome denotes the transformation of CLL into aggressive B-cell lymphoma. Most Richter's syndrome cases are secondary diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, but some are Hodgkin's disease variants. Hodgkin's lymphoma is thought to originate from germinal center or post-germinal center B-cells with evidence of somatic V(H) hypermutation. Taking into account CLL and Hodgkin's lymphoma histogenesis, hypothetically only CLL derived from V(H) mutated B-cells can clonally progress to Hodgkin's lymphoma variant of Richter's syndrome. To test our hypothesis, we analyzed the CLL ZAP-70 status as a surrogate for the V(H) mutational status in four patients with subsequent Hodgkin's disease variants of  Richter's syndrome. In all three cases with proven or suspected clonal relationship between Hodgkin and Reed-Sternberg- and leukemia cells, the CLL samples remained negative for ZAP-70, corresponding to CLL histogenesis from V(H) mutated B-cells. These empirical data suggest that the histological and clinical  diversity of Richter's transformation could be to a part explained by the different origin of CLL, with Hodgkin's disease variants arising probably only in V(H) mutated CLL."
2196	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common cause of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), and a subgroup of these patients who develop  both these conditions fail to respond to corticosteroids, cytotoxic drugs, splenectomy, and iv immunoglobulins. Alemtuzumab is a humanized anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody that is an effective therapy for B-CLL, mycosis fungoides, and T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia. Here we present a case report of a 78-yr-old  woman with B-CLL and progressive life-threatening AIHA with hemoglobin count 5.5  g/dL following fludarabine treatment, who was treated successfully with alemtuzumab. The anemia was completely reversed and hemoglobin count remains at 14 g/dL after 15 mo of unmaintained follow-up. No infectious complications were noted during or after alemtuzumab therapy. We conclude that alemtuzumab may be indicated for the treatment of AIHA in B-CLL patients who have failed other treatments."
2197	"Syndecan-1 (CD138) is a transmembrane heparin sulfate proteoglycan expressed on distinct stages of differentiation of B-lymphoid cells. Its prognostic value in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has not been evaluated so far. The serum concentration of sCD138 and some angiogenesis-involved cytokines: vascular  endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basis fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), and endostatin were studied in 52 previously untreated patients with B-CLL. We found  that bFGF and sCD138 levels were significantly higher in B-CLL patients than in controls. In patients with sCD138 level or endostatin level below the median value the lymphocyte count was higher than in patients with serum level of those  cytokines above the median value. In patients with progressive disease bFGF level was significantly higher and sCD138 level significantly lower than in patients with stable one. Moreover, high sCD138 level was associated with longer lymphocyte doubling-free survival, and, on the limit of statistical significance, a high endostatin level was associated with shorter progression-free survival. We conclude that serum sCD138 level is increased in early stage B-CLL patients and may have a positive prognostic value as to the dynamics of the disease."
2198	"Oligonucleotides (ODNs) of the PyNTTTTGT class directly stimulate B lymphocytes and plasmacytoid dendritic cells of the immune system of primates. Here we investigated the ability of the PyNTTTTGT ODN prototype IMT504 to regulate the expression of surface molecules and apoptosis in human B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. The surface molecules CD25, CD40, CD80 and CD86 were up-regulated upon incubation of the B-CLL cells with IMT504. Co-stimulation with  IL-2 resulted in further up-regulation. IMT504-activated B-CLL cells were also good stimulators of T cells in allogeneic mixed lymphocyte reactions and co-stimulation with IL-2 improved this stimulation capacity. Apoptosis of the B-CLL cells in vitro was also stimulated by incubation with IMT504. In this case, co-stimulation with IL-2 was not significant. Furthermore, B-CLL cells of all the patients studied developed an immunogenic phenotype and entered stimulated apoptosis upon in vitro incubation with IMT504 independently of the mutational status of their IgV(H) genes, becoming a good marker for tumor progression."
2199	"Morphological examination is the routine first step in the diagnosis of hematological malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Atypical cell morphology according to the FAB criteria is known to herald disease progression. Several years ago, it was proposed that FAB morphology at diagnosis  had a considerable prognostic impact. However, this proposal has not been widely  adopted in practice. Thus we questioned the prognostic value of the morphological examination, which was performed retrospectively in 88 patients out of our 110 institutional registry patients (70 males and 40 females, median age 57 yrs) with CLL at diagnosis. We related the results to the more modern prognostic markers. Atypical FAB morphology was shown to correlate with IgVH gene mutation status, trisomy of chromosome 12 and deletion of 17p detected either by conventional G-banding or by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis. The correlation of FAB morphology with CD38 antigen expression or with the histopathological pattern of bone marrow infiltration was not significant. Overall survival (OS) data were available for 84 morphologically examined patients. The patients with atypical morphology (64 patients) had a significantly shorter OS (103 months) than the 20 patients presenting with typical CLL morphology (237 months; p=0.03). Only the mutation status of IgVH genes correlated more closely with OS (p=0.002). Of note, there was no leukemia-related death within "unmutated" cases who had typical FAB morphology (p=0.14), and vice  versa, the mutation status had a significant prognostic impact within the morphologically atypical cases (p=0.01). Thus FAB morphology and the mutation status may yield complementary prognostic information. OS was affected both by the presence of cytogenetic aberrations (p=0.03) - most adversely by deletions of 17p and 11q, and by CD38 expression (p=0.003). We conclude that careful examination of peripheral blood smears according to FAB is a simple, cheap and valuable tool in the first-line assessment of prognosis of CLL patients and should not be overlooked even in 3rd millennium when more sophisticated prognostic markers are at hand. This ought to be confirmed in larger prospective  studies with multivariate analysis of data."
2200	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is an adult-onset highly heterogeneous malignancy characterized by a cells resistance to apoptosis rather  than to highly proliferative cells. In previous research, we evidenced an imbalance of purine metabolism in B-CLL cells. Since the extracellular adenosine  has been proved to induce apoptosis via A2b receptor, enzymes involved in adenosine metabolism could play an important role in apoptosis resistance of B-CLL cells. We prepared a microarray chip for the analysis of 50 selected genes  that could be of interest in B-CLL: enzymes of purine de-novo, salvage and catabolic pathway, oxidative stress enzymes, and apoptotis-related proteins. Preliminary results identify many genes of purine metabolism that exhibit low or  high expression, while genes involved in signal transduction and apoptosis exhibit lower alterations even if of remarkable interest. This application of microarray technique seems promising and at least a subset of these genes will be valid candidates for further studies."
2201	"2-Chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CdA) is a nucleoside analogue active in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Although the mechanism of action of CdA has been extensively investigated in leukemic cells, the possibility that this nucleoside analogue interacts with the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway has never been explored. In this study, we show that CdA, at concentrations close to the IC50, activated the ERK pathway in the B-cell line EHEB. Because activation of this pathway is assumed to exert anti-apoptotic effect, we combined CdA with inhibitors of the ERK pathway. The latter were found to enhance CdA-induced apoptosis. These results suggest that the efficacy of CdA could be strengthened by combination with inhibitors of the ERK pathway."
2202	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a low-grade B-lineage lymphoid malignancy but may have more heterogeneity than previously thought. Many cases require no treatment at all because of an indolent course, while other patients become symptomatic or develop signs of rapid progression. Treatment is usually noncurative and is directed at reducing the symptoms. Some molecular risk features may help delineate, at initial diagnosis, which patients will have a more aggressive course. Newer CLL treatment regimens incorporating purine nucleoside analogues and monoclonal antibodies have increased the rate of molecular complete remissions, which may lead to better survival times. Reduced intensity allogeneic transplant conditioning regimens have made the potentially curative modality more widely available. All these treatments have significant risks for infectious complications, which must be carefully weighed against the risks posed by the underlying disease. A proposed risk-based treatment algorithm  is discussed."
2205	"The purine nucleoside analog (PNA)--cladribine (2-CdA, 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine) is a cytotoxic agent of high efficacy in lymphoid and myeloid malignancies. This drug was approved by the FDA for treatment of hairy cell leukemia and in some European countries for treatment of refractory/relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 2-CdA is usually administered as continuous or intermittent intravenous infusion. Recently however, new formulations of this agent has been developed for subcutaneous and oral administration. In contrast to other PNA, 2-CdA is equally  cytotoxic to both proliferating and quiescent cells and several pathways may be responsible for the mechanism of its action. In addition, recent data indicate that 2-CdA combined with other cytotoxic agents and monoclonal antibodies show synergistic proapoptotic and cytotoxic activity on lymphoid and myeloid neoplastic cells. This review article summarizes recent achievements in the understanding of 2-CdA mechanism of action, pharmacokinetics of different pharmaceutical formulations and its approved and possible future applications in  the treatment of hematological malignancies. The most important recent patents concerning oral formulations of 2-CdA have been presented."
2206	"The purine nucleoside analog - cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, 2-CdA) is a cytotoxic agent with high activity in lymphoid and myeloid malignancies. It is also an effective drug in some autoimmune disorders. 2-CdA is usually administered intravenously in continuous or 2-hour infusion. Recently however, new formulation of this agent has been developed for subcutaneous and oral administration. 2-CdA is widely established as first line standard treatment for  hairy cell leukemia. Moreover several clinical trials have demonstrated that this agent, used alone or in combination with other cytotoxic drugs, showed good efficacy and acceptable toxicity profile in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic  leukemia, Waldenström macroglobulinemia, low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and acute myeloid leukemia. Moreover, some studies indicate that 2-CdA has some activity in progressive multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune disorders including autoimmune hemolytic anemia, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, psoriasis and in patients with refractory factor VIII inhibitors.  This review article will summarize the results of recent clinical trials with 2-CdA in hematological malignancies, multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune diseases."
2207	"BACKGROUND: Purine nucleoside analogs are a class of antineoplastic drugs with potent lymphotoxicity against T and B lymphocytes, causing prolonged lymphopenia  and linked to delayed immune complications such as opportunistic infections and more recently autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), seen mostly in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). A characteristic temporal relation between fludarabine therapy and the appearance of a warm-reactive immunoglobulin G (IgG)-mediated AIHA in patients with CLL has been observed and, in some, the AIHA has been fatal. Whether both fludarabine and cladribine cause AIHA is uncertain because AIHA is commonly seen in patients with CLL without the use of these drugs. In contrast, AIHA is encountered in Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) much less frequently, and the autoantibody is usually cold-reactive and IgM-mediated. In a few reported cases of AIHA arising in patients with WM after cladribine therapy, there was a latency of 24 to 60 months between therapy and the onset of AIHA, three of which were warm-reactive and IgG-mediated. CASE REPORT: A warm-reacting IgG red cell autoantibody and evidence of hemolysis  detected 1 month after completing cladribine therapy for WM, with warm antibody AIHA developing 4 months later, are described. CONCLUSIONS: Cladribine, like fludarabine, is possibly able to produce this complication during or early after therapy. Because the use of purine analogs is  becoming increasingly common, it is important to have an awareness of the complications that can arise during and after treatment. Further observations of  warm AIHA during cladribine therapy are needed to establish it as a distinct complication."
2208	"We report here on the long-term follow-up on 162 patients with high-risk chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who have undergone hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT) at a single center from 1989 to 1999. Twenty-five patients  with human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched sibling donors underwent T-cell-depleted allogeneic SCT, and 137 patients without HLA-matched sibling donors underwent autologous SCT. The 100-day mortality was 4% for both groups, but later morbidity and mortality were negatively affected on outcome. Progression-free survival was significantly longer following autologous than allogeneic SCT, but there was no difference in overall survival and no difference in the cumulative incidence of disease recurrence or deaths without recurrence between the 2 groups. At a median follow-up of 6.5 years there is no evidence of  a plateau of progression-free survival. The majority of patients treated with donor lymphocyte infusions after relapse responded, demonstrating a significant graft-versus-leukemia effect in CLL. From these findings we have altered our approach for patients with high-risk CLL and are currently exploring the role of  related and unrelated allogeneic SCT following reduced-intensity conditioning regimens."
2209	"BACKGROUND: Clinical trials of monoclonal antibodies in combination with chemotherapy have reported previously unattained response rates in patients with  B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL); however, the analysis of ZAP-70 protein and/or CD38 may explain better the discordant outcomes independent of treatment. METHODS: The authors conducted a Phase II study, in which rituximab was added to  fludarabine for patients with symptomatic, untreated CLL, to evaluate clinical outcomes. Sixty patients with B-CLL received 6 monthly courses of fludarabine (25 mg/m(2) for 5 days) followed by 4 weekly doses of rituximab (375 mg/m(2)). RESULTS: On the basis of National Cancer Institute criteria, 47 of 60 patients (78%) achieved a complete remission, 9 of 60 patients (15%) achieved a partial remission, and 4 of 60 patients (7%) had no response or progressive disease. It is noteworthy that the patients experienced a long progression-free survival (PFS) from treatment (68% at 3 yrs). A significantly shorter PFS was observed in  ZAP-70-positive patients (25% vs. 100% at 3 yrs; P = 0.00005), in CD38-positive patients (18% vs. 91% at 3 yrs; P = 0.0002), and in patients who had more minimal residual disease (36% vs. 77% at 2.5 yrs; P = 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: With the addition of rituximab to fludarabine, improved clinical outcomes were obtained, and the stratification of patients by using ZAP-70 and CD38 may help clinicians offer more aggressive and/or experimental approaches to  the treatment of patients with high-risk B-CLL subtypes."
2210	"Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) and its agonistic antibodies, which are currently in early clinical trials for treating various malignancies, induce apoptosis through triggering of either TRAIL-R1 or TRAIL-R2. Based on studies using agonistic monoclonal antibodies, we recently proposed that primary chronic lymphocytic leukemic cells seem to signal apoptosis primarily through TRAIL-R1. We have now synthesized mutant forms of TRAIL specific for TRAIL-R1 or TRAIL-R2. The selectivity of these mutants to induce apoptosis in cell lines is due to selective binding to their cognate receptors resulting in apoptosis via formation of a death-inducing signaling complex. Using these mutants, we now unequivocally show that primary cells from patients with chronic  lymphocytic leukemia and mantle cell lymphoma signal to apoptosis almost exclusively through TRAIL-R1. Thus, no significant therapeutic benefit can be anticipated from treating such patients with agents currently in clinical trials  that signal predominantly through TRAIL-R2, such as HGS-ETR2 or Apo2L/TRAIL. Our  study highlights the necessity to determine whether primary cells from a particular tumor signal via TRAIL-R1 or TRAIL-R2. Such information will provide a rational approach to optimize TRAIL therapy."
2211	"The naturally occurring compound 3beta,16beta,17alpha-trihydroxycholest-5-en-22-one 16-O-(2-O-4-methoxybenzoyl-beta-D-xylopyranosyl)-(1-->3)-(2-O-acetyl-alpha-L-arab inopyranoside) (OSW-1) is found in the bulbs of Ornithogalum saudersiae and is highly cytotoxic against tumor cell lines. Using various human cancer and nonmalignant cell lines, we investigated the anticancer activity and selectivity  of OSW-1 and its underlying mechanisms of action. OSW-1 exhibited extremely potent cytotoxic activity against cancer cells in vitro. Nonmalignant cells were  statistically significantly less sensitive to OSW-1 than cancer cells, with concentrations that cause a 50% loss of cell viability 40-150-fold greater than those observed in malignant cells. Electron microscopy and biochemical analyses revealed that OSW-1 damaged the mitochondrial membrane and cristae in both human  leukemia and pancreatic cancer cells, leading to the loss of transmembrane potential, increase of cytosolic calcium, and activation of calcium-dependent apoptosis. Clones of leukemia cells with mitochondrial DNA defects and respiration deficiency that had adapted the ability to survive in culture without mitochondrial respiration also were resistant to OSW-1. In vitro analysis revealed that OSW-1 effectively killed primary leukemia cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with disease refractory to fludarabine. The promising anticancer activity of OSW-1 and its unique mechanism of action make this compound worthy of further investigation for its potential to overcome drug  resistance."
2212	"The aims of this study were to evaluate the clinical characteristics of HIV-negative patients affected by lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD) who developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), to delineate the risk factors, and to analyze whether the new antineoplastic therapies are changing the natural history of this infectious disease. We retrospectively analyzed 46 cases  with confirmed LPD-associated PML published from 1958 to 2004. Patients were stratified according to two different time periods: group A included patients diagnosed before 1989, and group B included patients diagnosed since 1990, after  introduction of purine analogues. Group A patients (n = 22) had received alkylating agents and/or radiotherapy, and the majority (63.6%) had advanced Hodgkin disease. At univariate analysis, uncontrolled Hodgkin disease was the only risk factor for PML. In group B patients (n = 24), the most frequent treatments received were purine analogues (58.3%) and high-dose therapy with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (33.3%; HDT/HSCT). B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (45.8%) and aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma (24.9%) were the most frequent underlying LPDs. Patients treated with purine analogues were more likely to have active LPD, lower CD4 cell counts, and to be older and male than were HSCT recipients. The median interval from purine analogues or HDT/HSCT to PML was 11 months. In HDT/HSCT recipients, this interval was delayed for 10 months when peri-transplantation rituximab was used. Univariate analysis identified age >55 years, male sex, and CD4 cell counts <or=0.2 x 10(9)/L as risk factors for PML in patients treated with purine analogues. Mortality rates were 95.4% (group A patients), 90% (purine analogues), and 62.5% (HDT/HSCT recipients). At univariate analysis, the only factor that significantly correlated with recovery from infection was female sex. Our findings indicate (1) the possible reduction in reported cases associated with Hodgkin disease and the  increasing number of published cases associated with the new antineoplastic therapies (purine analogues and HDT/HSCT); (2) among patients treated with purine analogues, PML is more common in male patients with CD4 cell counts <or=0.2 x 10(9)/L; (3) the use of rituximab after HDT/HSCT seems to delay the onset of PML; and (4) the prognosis is slightly better in transplant recipients."
2213	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells (CLL) who received a one-time bolus infusion of autologous leukemia cells transduced with adenovirus encoding recombinant CD154 experienced acute and long-term reductions in leukemia cell counts and lymph-node size. This was associated with increases in the numbers of  leukemia-specific CD4+ T cells and high serum-levels of IL-12 and IFN-gamma. CD40-ligation induces CLL cells to express the proapoptotic molecule Bid and death receptors CD95 (Fas) and DR5, rendering CLL B cells first resistant and then sensitive to Fas-mediated apoptosis. Increasing sensitivity to Fas-mediated  apoptosis was also due to differential expression of pro- and antiapoptotic proteins at early versus late time points after activation. Additional treatment  with inhibitors to the X-linked inhibitor to apoptosis (XIAP) rendered the CD40-activated cells sensitive to Fas-mediated apoptosis even at early time points after CD40-activation, suggesting that XIAP inhibitors might enhance the effectiveness of CD154-based immune-gene therapy strategies for patients of B-cell malignancies."
2214	"B-Cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is an incurable disease that is relatively common among aging Caucasians. Patients with this leukemia can be divided into prognostic categories using clinical staging parameters, as well as  molecular features [presence or absence of IgVH mutations in rearranged VHDJH segments that code for the leukemic B cell's receptor for antigen (BCR)]. In addition, the deduced amino acid structure of the BCRs from patients that fall into different prognostic categories is shared, to varying degrees, within these  groups. In this paper, the molecular features of the genes that code for the BCRs of B-CLL patients are reviewed, and these are compared to antibodies of known specificity. These comparisons suggest that the BCRs of many cases resemble autoantibodies, and in some cases, antibodies to microbial antigens. Antigen-binding analyses confirm these impressions, and also indicate that polyreactivity appears to distinguish cases with worse clinical outcomes differ from those with better outcomes. The persistence of autoreactivity and polyreactivity is somewhat surprising, because IgV DNA sequence analyses suggest  that many of the B cells that become leukemic have undergone one form or another  of receptor editing. Thus, B-CLL appears to be a disease of B-cell clones that have undergone various types of receptor reconfiguration and yet retain inappropriate antigen-binding properties."
2215	"The flow cytometric classification of CD5-positive small B-cell neoplasms is dependent largely on the differential expression of CD23 and FMC-7. Occasional CD5-positive neoplasms with prominent co-expression of these antigens are encountered, precluding definitive immunophenotypic classification. The authors studied the clinicopathologic features of 26 neoplasms with this indeterminate immunophenotype. Available morphologic material was reviewed and analysis of CYCLIN D1 derangement was performed in selected cases by a combination of immunohistochemical, molecular, and cytogenetic techniques. Individual neoplasms  were classified based on correlation of morphologic features and results of CYCLIN D1 studies. The neoplasms were classified into five categories: chronic lymphocytic leukemia (14 cases), "favor chronic lymphocytic leukemia" (3 cases),  mantle cell lymphoma (3 cases), lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (1 case), and unclassifiable (5 cases). Three of the unclassifiable neoplasms had morphologic features of mantle cell lymphoma, but CYCLIN D1 derangement could not be demonstrated. Neither relative expression of CD23 and FMC-7 nor intensity of CD20 or surface immunoglobulin expression was helpful in final classification. The authors conclude that CD5-positive small B-cell neoplasms with an indeterminate immunophenotype are a heterogeneous group, requiring additional studies for final classification. The majority (65%) appear to be chronic lymphocytic leukemia, with most of the remaining cases either definitively mantle cell lymphoma or unclassifiable."
2216	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), which is the most common leukemia in adult population in the Western world, is surprisingly rare in Thailand. The objective  of our study was to retrospectively analyze the clinical presentations and outcome of a large cohort of Thai CLL patients diagnosed at a single institution  in Bangkok, Thailand, from 1963-1998. One hundred and eighty-four patients were included in the study. The most frequent age group was 60-80 years old with the male to female ratio of 2:1. Only 12% of patients were younger than the age of 50. Most patients were from the central agricultural region of Thailand. Clinical findings at presentation included splenomegaly (64%), lymphadenopathy (60%), anemia (54%), hepatomegaly (49%), fatigue (39%), weight loss (33%), fever (21%),  thrombocytopenia (18%), and anorexia (8%). Only 8% of Thai CLL patients were asymptomatic at presentation. The majority of patients were categorized as stages III and IV with the median survival of 20 months and 8 months, respectively. Infection was the most common cause of death, particularly in the elderly patients who had comorbid illnesses. Twenty-two percent of the patients had associated autoimmune disorders. The unfavorable prognostic factors observed were older age (> 70 years), weight loss and hepatosplenomegaly. We concluded that the age and gender of Thai CLL patients were similar to those of the Western countries but our patients came to medical attention at a later and more advanced stage. Prospective studies at a multi-center level in Thailand should be pursued  to investigate further the genetic and epidemiologic nature of Thai CLL patients."
2217	"Complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) is a key mechanism of Rituximab (RTX) action in killing non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) cells both in vitro and probably in vivo. A DeImmunized, mouse/human chimeric monoclonal antibody (Mab), H17, specific for cell-associated complement C3 cleavage products, C3b and iC3b, was generated to enhance RTX-mediated killing of target cells by CDC. When NHL cell lines were treated with RTX and H17 in the presence of complement for 1 h, there  was 40-70% more cell death than that observed with RTX alone. The enhancing effect of H17 was also seen over longer treatment periods. H17 was tested ex vivo against primary cells from NHL and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. In RTX-resistant NHL samples, H17 enhanced RTX-mediated killing; in the remaining samples RTX + complement alone promoted more than 80% killing, and no significant enhancement was observed. The H17 antibody also increased RTX-mediated killing in four out of nine CLL samples. H17 may have therapeutic applications in NHL and CLL treatment as an adjunctive therapy to RTX. It might also enhance the activity of other therapeutic antibodies that work through CDC."
2220	"INTRODUCTION: Rasburicase is a recombinant urate oxidase that is produced by a genetically modified Saccharomyces cerevisiae and has been approved for prophylaxis and treatment of tumor lysis syndrome in 2001. In several studies, rasburicase, given at a dose of 0.15-0.2 mg/kg for up to 7 d, proved to be highly effective in lowering urate levels. CASE REPORT: We report the case of a patient with chronic lymphatic leukemia (CLL) who experienced tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) with acute renal failure after fludarabine/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy and after bendamustine treatment. During the first episode of TLS, after fludarabine/cyclophosphamide (creatinine 3.3 mg/dL, urate 24.6 mg/dL), the patient received rasburicase 0.2 mg/kg for 3 d. Urate levels decreased below the lower limit of normal and renal function recovered. After bendamustine therapy, given for disease progression 8 months later, TLS with acute oliguric renal failure re-occurred (creatinine 3.1 mg/dL, urate 20.8 mg/dL). The patient was treated with hyperhydration and two doses of rasburicase (0.056 mg/kg), resulting in a prompt decrease of the urate level and  recovery of renal function. Both episodes of TLS were successfully treated with rasburicase in a lower dose than recommended by the manufacturer. During a second bendamustine course, TLS was successfully treated by low doses of rasburicase (0.056 mg/kg for 2 d). CONCLUSION: This is the first report of TLS in CLL after bendamustine chemotherapy reported in the literature. Treatment and prevention of TLS by low doses of rasburicase is possible and cost-effective."
2221	"AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate significance of VH mutation status for prognosis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients in comparison with other prognostic markers. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The VH mutation status was evaluated in 43 B-CLL patients  by RT-PCR amplification and nucleotide sequencing, and CD38 expression - by two-color FACS analysis. The prognostic influence of VH mutation rate and CD38 expression level was tested by different statistical methods. RESULTS: The increasing number of advanced cases over the follow-up period, shorter median time from diagnosis to start of second line therapy, worse response to fludarabine treatment, poor survival for early stages B-CLL were found in unmutated versus mutated CLL patients. The significance of CD38 expression for CLL prognosis was revealed as predictor for response for fludarabine treatment and time of progression in advanced stages. The correlation between CD38 expression and VH mutation status was not found. CONCLUSION: Simultaneous determination of VH mutation status and CD38 expression  may be helpful for prediction of CLL prognosis."
2222	"The BCL3 gene was initially discovered through its involvement in a recurring translocation, t(14;19)(q32;q13), which is found in some patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). The translocation leads to the juxtaposition of BCL3 to the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene locus, resulting in  high-level expression of the BCL3 transcript. The Bcl-3 protein includes 7 tandem copies of the ankyrin repeat element in the central domain, a structure that is characteristic of the IkappaB family of inhibitors of the nuclear factor kappaB transcription factors. Anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) is a subtype of aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that is characterized by expression of CD30 and the NPM/ALK chimeric protein, which is generated by t(2;5)(p23;q35). We compared  the gene expression profiles of ALCL with those of another CD30+ neoplasm, Hodgkin's disease (HD), and found that BCL3 is expressed at higher levels in ALCL than in HD. A comparison by real-time polymerase chain reaction assay revealed that t(2;5)+ ALCL expresses a high level of BCL3 messenger RNA relative to the levels expressed in other hematologic tumors, and the level in ALCL is comparable to or even higher than that in t(14;19)+ B-CLL. An immunohistochemical analysis of ALCL tumor tissues showed that the lymphoma cells exhibited strong nuclear staining by a monoclonal antibody against Bcl-3. We suggest that Bcl-3 sequestrates the (p50)2 homodimer to the nucleus and that the kappaB sites are occupied by the (p50)2/Bcl-3 ternary complex. Future studies should identify the  relationships among the 3 independent molecules (ie, NPM/ALK, CD30, and Bcl-3) that are activated in t(2;5)+ ALCL."
2223	"In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, squamous cell carcinoma behaves aggressively. Our purpose was to compare squamous cell carcinoma metastasis and mortality between patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and control subjects. Medical records were assessed retrospectively for 28 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who underwent surgical excision of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and for 56 matched control subjects. The rate of metastasis and mortality from cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma were determined on a per-patient basis. Three of 28 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia had metastasis and died of metastatic disease. No metastases or deaths occurred among the 56 control subjects. Compared with control subjects, chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients with cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma were more likely to have metastasis (P = .0031) and die of metastasis (P = .0033). No significant association was detected between metastasis and history of chemotherapy administration for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Among patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, surveillance for skin cancer and a decreased threshold for biopsy of suspect lesions are warranted."
2224	"BACKGROUND: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/ small lymphocytic lymphoma (B-CLL/SLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) show many overlapping morphologic and  immunophenotyping features, however they have great difference in therapeutic regimens and prognosis. THE AIM OF THE STUDY: Is to determine the diagnostic and prognostic role of clinico-pathologic variables, CD23 and Cyclin D1 oncoprotiens in B-SLL/CLL and MCL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study included 25 BCLL/ SLL cases and 25 MCL cases. All cases were carefully examined and stained using CD23 and Cyclin D1 immunostaining. RESULTS: There was significant difference between BCLL/ SLL and MCL regarding several items including pattern of growth, where interfollicular pattern was restricted to B-SLL/CLL while nodular and mantle zone pattern were confined to MCL; pseudo-follicles were only present in B-CLL/SLL. Transformed cells, plasmacytoid cells, peripheral blood lymphocytosis, significant longer survival and good prognosis were statistically more prominent in favor of B-CLL/SLL. On the other hand, cell cleavage, epithelioid histiocytes, plasma cells, naked nuclei, hyalinized venules, deposited hyaline material in background and reticular fibers in addition to higher mitotic index per 20 HPF were more significantly identified in favor of MCL. CD23 was expressed as membranous pattern in 16/25 (64%) of B-CLL/SLL cases and 1/25 (4%) of MCL cases. On the other hand, Cyclin D1 was expressed as nuclear staining in 18/25 (72%) of MCL cases and only 1/25 (4%) of B-CLL/SLL cases. Regarding B-CLL/SLL, age >60 years and mitosis >or=10/20 HPF were independent prognostic factors of shorter survival by multivariate analysis. In MCL, Cyclin D1 overexpression and splenomegaly were  independent prognostic factors of survival by multivariate analysis. CONCLUSION: Cyclin D1 is not only implicated in tumor genesis of MCL, but also in progression and extension of the disease when expressed in high levels (50% cut off value) and it seems to have prognostic impact in MCL. This can be used as a basis for future therapeutic strategies targeting cell cycle regulators. This study could support the concept that Cyclin D1 and CD23 immunostaining may be reliable diagnostic tools for discrimination between B-CLL/SLL and MCL."
2225	"Polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs or neutrophils) are the most prominent cellular component of the innate immune system in humans and produce an array of  potent cytotoxic molecules. It is important that neutrophils undergo constitutive (spontaneous) apoptosis as a mechanism to facilitate normal cell turnover and immune system homeostasis. Conversely, several proinflammatory cytokines, including granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), prolong neutrophil survival. The molecular mechanisms that regulate PMN apoptosis or survival remain incompletely defined. To that end, we compared global gene expression in human neutrophils during spontaneous apoptosis with that in cells cultured with human GM-CSF. Genes encoding proteins that inhibit apoptosis, such  as myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1, caspase 8 and Fas-associated via death domain-like apoptosis regulator (CFLAR), B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 2 (BCL2)/adenovirus E1B 19 kDa-interacting protein 2 (BNIP2), and serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase (SGK), were down-regulated coincident with neutrophil apoptosis. In contrast, those encoding apoptosis inhibitor 5, BCL2-like 1, BNIP2, CFLAR, SGK, and tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 8 were up-regulated in PMNs cultured with GM-CSF. Correspondingly, GM-CSF delayed PMN apoptosis (P<0.03), increased cell viability (P<0.03), and prolonged neutrophil phagocytic capacity (P<0.05). Prolonged functional capacity was paralleled by striking up-regulation of proinflammatory genes and proteins, including CD14, CD24, CD66, and human leukocyte antigen-DR. In addition, expression of SGK protein diminished during PMN apoptosis but was restored by culture with GM-CSF, suggesting SGK is involved in leukocyte survival. These studies provide a global view of the molecular events that regulate neutrophil survival and apoptosis."
2226	"Improvement in quality of life (QoL), together with overall survival and disease-free survival, is a relevant endpoint for patients affected by chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a disease still considered as not curable. In addition, the study of the QoL can significantly contribute to investigate particular aspects related to different treatments which generally are not taken  into account in clinical trials. A comprehensive approach to CLL should include also in the day-by-day practice the development of an appropriate and friendly interaction between the physician and patients aimed at improving the process of  adaptation encompassing either the 'watch and wait' phase or the treatment period. The present review points out the role of QoL in the global patient management and care of CLL patients also in view of changes in the philosophy of  treatment we have witnessed nowadays."
2227	"ZAP-70 has emerged as a protein of potential prognostic importance in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) following gene expression profiling which compared the 2 well established prognostic sub-sets, those with unmutated and mutated IgVH genes. This protein tyrosine kinase (PTK), known to be of importance in T and NK  cell signaling but absent in normal peripheral B cells, is expressed in the majority of the poorer prognosis unmutated CLL and absent in most cases with mutated IgVH genes. ZAP-70 has been shown to be functionally important in the CLL cases in which it is expressed; it is also important in B cell development in mice and there is preliminary evidence for its expression in human B cell progenitors and activated B cells. Whether its expression in a sub-set of CLL cases is a result of a more activated cell type or a reflection of the stage of maturation of the transforming event(s) in CLL is open to debate. ZAP-70 is expressed in a minority of other B cell tumors but correlation with IgVH gene mutational status is lacking. The problems with ZAP-70 measurement, which has yet to be standardized, are reviewed together with its current status as a prognostic marker in CLL."
2228	"We have analyzed the clonotype composition of CD8+ T cells following nonmyeloablative (NMA) conditioning and hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Consecutive analyses of blood samples taken up to 2 years following HCT, demonstrated that CD8+ T-cell clonality was highly dynamic in the early phases after HCT, but became more stable after 4-5 months. Moreover, donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) given for disease progression in one of the patients led to establishment of recurrent as well as new T-cell clonotypes. This coincided with disease remission, strongly suggesting that these T cells were engaged with anti-CLL cytotoxicity. To examine the functional capacity of stable clonally expanded T cells after HCT, CD8+ T cells isolated post-transplant from the recipients were stimulated ex vivo with CLL cells and subsequently analyzed by FACS for surface expression of the marker  for cytotoxic activity, CD107a. Stimulation with CLL cells indeed led to surface  expression of CD107a, and clonotype analyses of sorted cells demonstrated that CD107a positive T cells were stably expanded following HCT. Our data suggest that clonally expanded CD8+ T-cell clones participate in the ongoing T-cell response against CLL cells following HCT with NMA conditioning."
2229	"New insights into prognostic markers and the pathophysiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are beginning to change the concept of CLL treatment.  Alemtuzumab has evolved as a potent and effective therapeutic option for patients with CLL. Specifically, alemtuzumab has demonstrated substantial efficacy in fludarabine-refractory patients and has shown impressive responses when administered subcutaneously in first-line therapy. A group of experts gathered to discuss new data related to the use of alemtuzumab in CLL and to assess its place in the rapidly changing approach to treating patients with this disease. The main goals of this program were to update the management guidelines that were previously developed for alemtuzumab-treated patients and to provide community oncologists with guidance on the most effective way to integrate alemtuzumab into a CLL treatment plan."
2230	"The cytokine TRAIL (tumor necrosis factor alpha-related apoptosis-inducing ligand) as well as agonistic antibodies that bind to the TRAIL receptors, death receptor 4 (DR4) and DR5, are undergoing preclinical and early clinical evaluation as potential therapeutic agents for a variety of hematological and nonhematological malignancies. Here, we briefly review the normal biological function of TRAIL, the mechanism of cytotoxicity of TRAIL receptor ligands, and their effects on normal myeloid progenitors, myelodysplastic marrow and leukemic  cells, including acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), in vitro. Recent observations suggesting that DR4 is the predominant receptor for the cytotoxic effects of TRAIL in CLL and that histone deacetylase inhibitors synergize with TRAIL in CLL in vitro are described and discussed. Collectively, the reviewed studies not only illustrate the potential therapeutic usefulness of TRAIL and the agonistic antibodies, but also highlight  the need for additional preclinical evaluation of these agents."
2234	"The World Health Organization classification divides lymphoid malignancies into precursor B-cell and T-cell neoplasms as well as mature B-cell and T-cell neoplasms. Mature B-cell neoplasms comprise more than 85% of non-Hodgkin lymphomas worldwide and can be further subclassified according to the postulated  cell of origin by using specific morphologic, immunophenotypic, and molecular characteristics. Similarly, the more uncommon mature T-cell neoplasms have been better characterized to include numerous distinct entities with widely varying natural histories. The distinction between lymphoma and leukemia is somewhat arbitrary and is based on variable involvement of the bone marrow, peripheral blood, and lymphatic system. In this article, we review the diagnostic and clinical features of mature B-cell and T-cell lymphoproliferative disorders that  commonly have a leukemic presentation."
2235	"Until recently, concerns regarding viral infections and hematologic malignancies  were primarily focused on the transplantation of an allogeneic graft. In the last years, the use of immunomodulatory agents such as monoclonal antibodies (e.g. anti CD20, anti CD52) directed against lymphocyte antigens in the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies (e.g. lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia) has added a great potential to impact on the incidence, severity and timing of viral  infections. Patients may acquire viral infections through several mechanisms including transfusion, community exposure or via the donor origin in the case of  stem cell transplant. Endogenous reactivation of latent viruses is also commonly  observed. Viral replication may lead directly to viral diseases or induce indirect effects such as increased incidence of opportunistic infections and decreased patient survival. Traditionally, herpesviruses have been and are still  today the most important viruses in patients with hematologic malignancies. Nowadays, several emerging viral infections have been highlighted as being of concern in this patients' population."
2237	"Antisense oligonucleotides have been evaluated as antineoplastic agents in a series of clinical trials, with mixed results. However, phase III trials incorporating G3139, a phosphorothioate oligomer targeted to the initiation codon region of the bcl-2 mRNA, have recently been completed in advanced melanoma, myeloma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This article discusses the mechanism of the antisense effect and its dependence on the cellular internalization of oligonucleotides and the activity of RNase H. It also describes the properties, specific and nonspecific, of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, the predominant species in current clinical trials, and discusses pharmacokinetic data obtained from earlier phase I and II trials employing these molecules. While the application of antisense technology to the treatment of human cancer is conceptually straightforward, in practice there are  many complicated, mechanistically based questions that must be considered."
2239	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disease of CD5(+) B lymphocytes (designated as CLL cells) that are inefficient antigen-presenting cells. Their poor ability to present antigens to the T cells, largely due to an inadequate costimulatory capacity, is manifested as a failure to stimulate proliferation of  both allogeneic and autologous T cells. We have investigated the ability of in vitro manipulated CLL cells, via hyperexpression of a triad of costimulatory molecules (B7-1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 [ICAM-1], and leukocyte-function-associated antigen 3 [LFA-3], designated TRICOM), to stimulate effective antitumor T-cell responses. A recombinant modified vaccinia virus strain Ankara (MVA), which is a highly attenuated, replication-impaired virus variant, was successfully used to infect and deliver the simultaneous expression  of the 3 human costimulatory molecules in TRICOM on the surface of the CLL cells. Proliferation of allogeneic and autologous T cells was observed when MVA-TRICOM-infected CLL cells were used as stimulators in proliferation assays. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes, generated in vitro by stimulation of autologous T cells  with MVA-TRICOM-infected CLL cells, showed cytotoxicity against unmodified/uninfected CLL cells. Therefore, our findings suggest that the use of  CLL cells infected ex vivo with MVA-TRICOM or direct injection of MVA-TRICOM in patients with CLL has potential for the immunotherapy of CLL."
2240	"Activating mutations in tyrosine kinases have been identified in hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic malignancies. Recently, we and others identified a single recurrent somatic activating mutation (JAK2V617F) in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) tyrosine kinase in the myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs) polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, and myeloid metaplasia with myelofibrosis. We used direct sequence analysis to determine if the JAK2V617F mutation was present in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)/atypical chronic myelogenous leukemia (aCML), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), T-cell ALL, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL). Analysis of 222 patients with AML identified JAK2V617F mutations in 4 patients with AML, 3 of whom had a preceding MPD. JAK2V617F mutations were identified in 9 (7.8%) of 116 CMML/a CML samples, and in 2 (4.2%) of 48 MDS samples. We did not identify the JAK2V617F disease allele in B-lineage ALL (n = 83), T-cell ALL (n = 93), or CLL (n = 45). These data indicate that the JAK2V617F allele is present in acute and chronic myeloid malignancies but not in lymphoid malignancies."
2241	"Immunoglobulin kappa (IGK) and immunoglobulin lambda (IGL) light chain repertoire was analyzed in 276 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cases and compared with the relevant repertoires from normal, autoreactive, and neoplastic cells. Twenty-one functional IGKV genes were used in IGKV-J rearrangements of 179 kappa-CLL cases; the most frequent genes were IGKV3-20(A27), IGKV1-39/1D-39(O2/O12), IGKV1-5(L12), IGKV4-1(B3), and IGKV2-30(A17); 90 (50.3%)  of 179 IGK sequences were mutated (similarity < 98%). Twenty functional IGLV genes were used in IGLV-J rearrangements of 97 lambda-CLL cases; the most frequent genes were IGLV3-21(VL2-14), IGLV2-8(VL1-2), and IGLV2-14(VL1-4); 44 of  97 IGL sequences (45.4%) were mutated. Subsets with "CLL-biased" homologous complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) were identified: (1) IGKV2-30-IGKJ2,  7 sequences with homologous kappa CDR3 (KCDR3), 5 of 7 associated with homologous IGHV4-34 heavy chains; (2) IGKV1-39/1D-39-IGKJ1/4, 4 unmutated sequences with homologous KCDR3, 2 of 4 associated with homologous IGHV4-39 heavy chains; (3) IGKV1-5-IGKJ1/3, 4 sequences with homologous KCDR3, 2 of 4 associated with unmutated nonhomologous IGHV4-39 heavy chains; (4) IGLV1-44-IGLJ2/3, 2 sequences  with homologous lambda CDR3 (LCDR3), associated with homologous IGHV4-b heavy chains; and (5) IGLV3-21-IGLJ2/3, 9 sequences with homologous LCDR3, 3 of 9 associated with homologous IGHV3-21 heavy chains. The existence of subsets that comprise given IGKV-J/IGLV-J domains associated with IGHV-D-J domains that display homologous CDR3 provides further evidence for the role of antigen in CLL  pathogenesis."
2242	"Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) play an important role in the biology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Thalidomide is a first-generation immuno-modulating agent that down-regulates TNF-alpha and VEGF. We initiated a phase 1/2 clinical trial to determine the safety and efficacy of combining thalidomide with fludarabine in patients with treatment-naïve CLL. Patients received 6 months of continuous daily thalidomide with standard monthly doses of fludarabine. Three dose levels of thalidomide (100, 200, and 300 mg) were studied. Results from the phase 1 part of this study are reported here. Thirteen patients were enrolled in the phase 1 component of the study. Dose-limiting toxicity was not reached. The most common toxicities noted were fatigue, constipation, and peripheral sensory neuropathy. Overall response rate was 100% with 55% of patients achieving complete remissions. At a median follow-up of 15+ months none of the patients have had a relapse and the median time to disease progression has not yet been reached. Responses were noted at all dose levels. Thalidomide given up to 300 mg/day concurrently with fludarabine in patients with previously untreated CLL shows encouraging clinical efficacy and acceptable toxicity. An ongoing phase 2 part of this study will help validate the clinical efficacy of this regimen."
2243	"BACKGROUND: Zeta-chain associated protein (ZAP)-70 has been proposed as a surrogate marker for immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region (IgVH) mutation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), but it is still not clear whether it is an independent prognostic factor. METHODS: The authors evaluated ZAP-70 expression by flow cytometry in 201 untreated patients and correlated ZAP-70 levels with CD38 expression, genetic abnormalities detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and the time from diagnosis to first treatment. RESULTS: Fifty-seven patients (28%) were positive for ZAP-70 (> or = 20%). Positive ZAP-70 status was associated with advanced disease stage, atypical morphology, CD38-positive status, trisomy 12, del(6q), or no detectable abnormalities; negative ZAP-70 status was correlated with del(13q) as a sole abnormality. The treatment-free interval (TFI) was 17.7 months for ZAP-70-positive patients and 44.6 months for ZAP-70-negative patients (P < 0.001). Multivariate analysis in 117 patients identified advanced stage, CD38 > or = 7%, and the absence of del(13q) as a sole abnormality as independent factors for short TFI. Excluding FISH, ZAP-70 status acquired independent prognostic value along with CD38 status. The authors proposed a risk model that combines ZAP-70 and CD38 to identify patients who are likely to progress. When both markers were positive, the TFI was 12 months; when both were negative, the median TFI was 54 months; a median TFI of 26 months was observed in patients who had discordant results (P < 0.00001). CONCLUSIONS: The current findings suggested that both ZAP-70 and CD38 should be tested prospectively in all patients with early-stage CLL."
2245	"PURPOSE: To study BCL10 expression in ocular adnexal lymphoma in the US population and its association with clinical outcomes. DESIGN: Institutional, retrospective study. METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was performed with antibody against BCL10 on two tissue microarray blocks that were constructed with paraffin-embedded tissues from the same cohort of 48 patients with ocular adnexal lymphomas. The main outcomes that were measured include extraorbital involvement, recurrence rate, and time to recurrence. The median length of the follow-up period was 40 months. RESULTS: Aberrant BCL10 expression (nuclear [moderate intensity] and cytoplasmic  [weak to moderate intensity] staining) was observed in 10 of 33 cases (30.3%) of  mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma, in 4 of 10 cases (40%) of follicular lymphoma (grade 1, 9 cases; grade 2, 1 case), in 0 of 2 cases of diffused large B-cell lymphoma, in 0 of 1 case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma and in 1 of 1 case (100%) of mantle cell lymphoma. There were no differences in clinical parameters at examination (ie, average age, gender, site of occurrence, laterality, extraorbital involvement at  diagnosis), recurrence rate, and time to recurrence for patients (MALT lymphoma or follicular lymphoma) with or without aberrant nuclear BCL10 expression. CONCLUSION: Aberrant BCL10 expression can occur in other types of ocular adnexal  lymphomas besides MALT lymphoma. Ocular adnexal MALT lymphoma may have slightly lower frequency of aberrant BCL10 expression than gastric/pulmonary MALT lymphomas that have been reported in the literature. Furthermore, aberrant BCL10  nuclear expression in ocular adnexal lymphoma does not seem to correlate with clinical outcome. Further studies that include a larger number of cases and longer follow-up period are needed to confirm our observation."
2247	"Several features of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) suggest that immune-based  strategies may have therapeutic potential. A promising approach is provided by the transduction of CLL cells with CD40 ligand (CD40L) by viral vectors to enhance their immunogenicity. We compared the antigen-presenting capacity of CD40L-transduced CLL cells with mock-transduced or CD40L-stimulated CLL cells (CD40-CLL). A significantly higher number of T cells could be expanded using CD40L-transduced CLL cells as antigen-presenting cells (APCs) compared with the control group (P = .008). Using 5 different CLL-associated tumor antigens, including fibromodulin, MDM2 (murine double minute 2), survivin, p53, and KW-13,  we show in interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays after 35 days of in vitro culture that the number of antigen-specific autologous  T cells was also significantly higher when CD40L-transduced CLL cells were used as APCs (P < .001). Thus, CD40L-transduced CLL cells are able to induce an antigen-specific T-cell response and might be superior to CD40-CLL cells for immune-based therapeutic strategies in CLL."
2248	"In all, 30 patients with CLL proceeded to myeloablative allogeneic BMT using related (n=20, 67%) or unrelated (n=10) donors, at the Princess Margaret Hospital (Toronto) (n=20) or the Leukemia/BMT Program of BC (Vancouver) (n=10), from 1989  to 2001. Median (range) interval from diagnosis to BMT was 4.8 (0.3-13) years, median number of prior therapies was three and median age 48 years. The preparative regimen included total body irradiation in 15 (50%). In all, 14 of 30 patients (47%) are alive, with median (range) follow up of 4.3 (2.4-10.5) years.  All are in complete remission, two following therapy for post-BMT progression. Actuarial overall (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) at 5 years is 39% (OS 48% for related donor and 20% for unrelated donor BMT); cumulative incidence of nonrelapse mortality (NRM) and relapse is 47 and 19%, respectively. Both acute (RR=0.008, P=0.01) and chronic (RR=0.006, P=0.02) Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) were associated with markedly decreased risk of relapse. Patients receiving grafts from unrelated donors had increased NRM (RR=3.6, P=0.02) and decreased OS (RR of death=3.4, P=0.002). Allogeneic BMT has resulted in long-term EFS in approximately 40% of patients with CLL. There is evidence for a strong graft-versus-leukemia effect associated with acute and chronic GVHD, resulting in near complete protection from relapse."
2249	"Telomeric regions of the human genome are of particular interest, because rearrangements of these regions are difficult to identify by conventional chromosome banding technology. With the advent of molecular cytogenetic techniques such as fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), it has been possible to investigate the terminus in cytogenetically visible terminal deletions and telomere rearrangements. We investigated telomere capture and aneuploidy rates in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients, as well as in healthy control subsets. Using a FISH technique, we estimated the random aneuploidy and telomere capture of the 21q22,  SNRPN, and 15qter loci. Higher aneuploidy rates were found in the leukocytes of CLL and CML patients, compared with the control group, for the 21q22 and SNRPN loci. There was no difference in the aneuploidy rate between the CML and CLL groups. Telomere capture was found in the two groups (CLL and CML), but not in the control group. We propose that the telomere capture phenomenon is much more common than has been reported in the literature; however, its prognostic significance is yet to be established."
2250	"An 83-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) for 10 years presented with dyspnea and hypotension. Blood investigations and electrocardiogram were consistent with acute myocardial infarction. The patient deteriorated quickly and died shortly thereafter. At autopsy, there was severe atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries and an inferolateral left ventricular wall myocardial infarct.  Microscopy showed that CLL involved the nodes, liver, spleen, bowel, and kidneys. The coronary artery walls were infiltrated with leukemia cells invading the tunica media and the atheromatous plaque. Infiltration of the coronary arteries by CLL is not common and the possible role in coronary syndromes is discussed."
2251	"PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) allogeneic transplant in 30 patients with poor-prognosis chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and/or high-risk molecular/cytogenetic characteristics. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Eighty-three percent of patients had active disease at the moment of transplant. That is, 14 of the 23 patients analyzed (60%) had unmutated immunoglobulin variable heavy-chain gene (IgV(H)) status; 8 of 25 patients (32%)  had 11q-, with four of them also displaying unmutated IgV(H); and six (24%) had 17p- (five were also unmutated). RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 47.3 months, all 22 patients alive are disease free; overall survival and event-free survival (EFS) at 6 years were 70%  and 72%, respectively. According to molecular/cytogenetic characteristics, overall survival and EFS for unmutated CLL and/or with 11q- aberration (n = 13) were 90% and 92%, respectively, not significantly different to those with normal  in situ hybridization, 13q- and +12, or mutated CLL (n = 7). All six patients with 17p deletion were transplanted with active disease, including three with refractory disease; all except one reached complete remission after the transplant and two are alive and disease free. Nonrelapse mortality (NRM) was 20%; more than two lines before transplant is an independent prognostic factor for NRM (P = 0,02), EFS (P = 0.02), and overall survival (P = 0.01). Patients older than 55 years have a higher risk of NRM (hazard ratio, 12.8; 95% confidence interval, 1.5-111). Minimal residual disease was monitored by multiparametric flow cytometry in 21 patients. Clearance of CD79/CD5/CD19/CD23 cells in bone marrow was achieved in 68% and 94% of the patients at days 100 and 360, respectively. CONCLUSION: According to these results, RIC allogeneic transplant could overcome  the adverse prognosis of patients with unmutated CLL as well as those with 11q- or 17p-."
2253	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The remarkable progress witnessed over the past few years in the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia has profoundly changed the clinical approach to this disease. This review focuses on  the most recent advances in the diagnostic and prognostic examination of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, with particular emphasis on their implications in clinical management, taking into account the broadening of the therapeutic possibilities available today. RECENT FINDINGS: Through the biologic improvements achieved during the past few years it is now possible to effectively stratify chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients prognostically at presentation on the basis of several laboratory parameters. Furthermore, the availability of purine analogs and monoclonal antibodies and the extension of autografting and allografting procedures have allowed the achievement of higher response rates, including molecular remissions. With the aim of investigating whether early and aggressive treatment intervention may improve the survival of patients with a poor prognosis, new therapeutic trials have been specifically designed. SUMMARY: A complete biologic and clinical examination now allows the establishment of a correct diagnostic characterization of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and to identify patients with early disease with a different prognostic likelihood. Multicenter prospective trials, in which the enrolled patients are stratified and treated according to their prognostic risk, will determine the best treatment for the different categories of patients. It is likely that in the near future each chronic lymphocytic leukemia patient can be offered a targeted treatment algorithm based on the clinical and biologic characteristics at presentation."
2254	"BACKGROUND: In 1975, Dixson reported that anti-platelet IgG on platelets from patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is greater than in normal people, by determining anti-platelet antibodies directly on the platelet surface  with a quantitative complement lysis-inhibition-assay. Since then, platelet-associated IgG (PAIgG) has been thought of as evidence of ITP. Although  platelets from ITP patients show significantly higher PAIgG values than from normal control individuals, PAIgG is not specific for autoantibody because it increases in other than immune ITP patients. METHODS: We analyzed positive platelet percentage with various platelet-associated immunoglobulins: IgG, IgM, IgA, and total immunoglobulins, in the blood from 17 normal donors and 23 ITP patients. RESULTS: The specificity for ITP disease was better in flow cytometry than in ELISA, because, other than ITP, only aplastic anemia was positive in flow cytometry; however, various disorders (aplastic anemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, and myelodysplastic syndrome) showed positive in ELISA. Flow cytometry methods had the same sensitivity for ITP disease as ELISA. However, it is supposed that there was no nonimmune ITP in this study because the PAIgG negative patients (n = 1) showed positive results in flow cytometry. CONCLUSION: Flow cytometry method was effective for ITP screening, especially for specificity."
2255	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Mucormycoses are seen with an increasing incidence in  immunocompromised patients. Most common presentations are rhinocerebral and pulmonary. We here report the experience of a single center with mucormycoses in  patients with hematologic malignancies. RESULTS: Mucormycoses were diagnosed in six patients, (median age of 52 years; range, 26-74) treated between 2001-2004. Diagnoses included acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (n=3), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (n=1), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n=1) and multiple myeloma (n=1). Mucormycosis was diagnosed in the neutropenic state following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (n=3) or intense chemotherapy (n=3). Sites of infections were rhinocerebral, facial and pulmonary involvement in one patient each and disseminated mucormycosis in three  patients. The diagnosis was established by computed tomography followed by surgical interventions and histological diagnosis in 4 patients and post-mortem in two patients. Species identified were Rhizopus (n=3), Rhizomucor (n=2) and Absidia (n=1). Treatment responses were best if surgical resection was followed by aggressive antifungal chemotherapy. Five of six 6 patients died, all of complications of mucormycosis or their underlying disease. Only one patient with  facial mucormycosis is still alive. CONCLUSIONS: This experience demonstrates that patient with mucormycoses have a high mortality rate and early recognition followed by aggressive surgical debridement, high dose antifungal therapy and attempts to correct the underlying  immunocompromised state are crucial in the treatment of this fatal infection."
2258	"Acute tumor lysis syndrome (ATLS) is a well-known complication of chemotherapy in patients with rapidly proliferative hematopoietic malignancies such as lymphoma and leukemia. Rituximab anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, an alternative to chemotherapy in the treatment of low-grade follicular lymphoma, also has been associated with ATLS. Rituximab-induced ATLS has been reported in 2 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and in 2 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. I report another case of rituximab-induced ATLS in a patient with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and review the cases in the literature."
2259	"Analysis of peripheral blood (>85% CD19+/CD5+ B) lymphocytes, obtained from 44 patients affected by B chronic lymphoid leukemia (B-CLL), showed that surface TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) was expressed in all samples and at higher levels with respect to unfractionated lymphocytes and purified CD19+ B cells, obtained from 15 normal blood donors. Of note, in a subset of B-CLL samples, the addition to B-CLL cultures of a TRAIL-R1-Fc chimera, which binds at  high affinity to surface TRAIL, significantly decreased the percentage of viable  cells with respect to untreated control B-CLL cells, suggesting that surface TRAIL may play an unexpected role in promoting B-CLL cell survival. In spite of the majority of B-CLL lymphocytes expressed variable surface levels of "death receptors" TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2, the addition in culture of recombinant TRAIL increased (>20% vs. controls) the degree of spontaneous apoptosis in only 11/44 of the B-CLL samples, had no effect in 19/44, while it significantly increased leukemic cell survival in 14/44. Taken together, these findings suggest that an aberrant expression of TRAIL might contribute to the pathogenesis of B-CLL by promoting the survival in a subset of B-CLL cells."
2261	"The immunoglobulin (Ig) mutational status in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (CLL) distinguishes two subsets of patients with different prognosis. Ig status detection is commonly performed with a panel of V(H) family-specific primers. Although this method detects clonal VDJ rearrangement in virtually all cases, it  is technically cumbersome and therefore not widely used clinically. Here, we describe a simple and rapid method to establish the mutational status of IgV(H) in CLL. The method is based on a consensus V(H) FR2 primer, used in both polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing reactions. Overall, monoclonal B-cell populations were detected in 163 of 189 CLL patients (86%). The prognostic value of IgV(H) mutational status was then evaluated by analyzing survival in 146 CLL cases using different V(H) homology cutoffs. CLL prognostic groups were best  separated by the classical 98% cutoff: median survival was 127 and 206 months in  unmutated and mutated CLL cases, respectively (P = 0.0023). V(H) FR2 consensus and V(H) family PCR were compared in 41 cases, correctly assigning all cases by both methods. Therefore, we suggest a sequential strategy to detect immunoglobulin mutational status in CLL patients by first using the approach described in this study followed by alternative V(H) family-specific PCRs for negative cases."
2262	"Differentiation of benign and malignant causes of lymphocytosis in blood or bone  marrow can be problematic. In the present study, reports of examinations of bone  marrow from cats, submitted over an 8-year period, were reviewed to identify cats with increased numbers of small lymphocytes. Of 203 reports reviewed, 12 (5.9%) indicated increased numbers of small lymphocytes. Diagnoses for these cats included chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL; n = 2), pure red cell aplasia (PRCA;  n = 4), immune-mediated hemolytic anemia (IMHA; n = 3), thymoma (n = 1), cholangiohepatitis (n = 1), and fever of unknown origin (n = 1). Several factors  were identified that could be used to differentiate reactive lymphocytosis from CLL. Cats with CLL tended to be older, and lymphocytes were slightly larger and had cleaved or lobulated nuclei. Reactive lymphocytosis was associated with immune-mediated anemias and inflammatory diseases. In reactive lymphocytosis, the proliferating lymphocytes were organized into lymphoid aggregates in bone marrow  and were predominately B cells. Alternatively, in CLL and thymoma, the proliferating lymphocytes were diffusely distributed and were predominately T cells. Therefore, differentiation of the causes of lymphocytosis should include evaluation of signalment, concurrent disease conditions, lymphocyte morphology, lymphocyte distribution in bone marrow, and immunophenotype. Cat age, presence of severe anemia, and evidence of inflammatory disease also should be considered."
2263	"Leptomeningeal involvement (LI) is a rare complication in the course of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). It is difficult to assess, thus several cases may go unrecognized. Here we report on six patients with LI of B-CLL. Neurologic  symptoms were present in five of six patients. Cerebral MRI, although performed in all subjects, was diagnostic in two patients only. Examination of cerebrospinal fluid by cytology and immunophenotyping revealed LI in all six cases. One patient received whole brain irradiation, two patients received intrathecal therapy or intravenous fludarabine respectively. Clinical responses occurred in one patient after irradiation and two patients after fludarabine. Response in CSF was observed in all four evaluable patients after intrathecal therapy (n=2) and fludarabine (n=2). Survival for the patient who received irradiation was five months and for the two patients treated with intrathecal therapy three and six months respectively. One of the patients on fludarabine treatment survived for 21 months with an 11 month event-free survival for the CNS manifestations while the other patient has been in an ongoing meningeal CR and hematologic PR for 20 months. We conclude that fludarabine may be useful in meningeal involvement of CLL with impact on systemic disease."
2264	"INTRODUCTION: : Studies with flavopiridol have demonstrated that this agent has in vitro activity in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and promotes apoptosis independent of p53 function or prior fludarabine exposure. Based upon this pre-clinical data, a phase I/II study of 24h flavopiridol was performed. PATIENTS AND METHODS: : Patients with previously treated CLL patients were enrolled on two sequentially performed cohorts of 13 patients. Patients in the first cohort received flavopiridol (80 mg/m(2) as a 24-h continuous infusion [24h CI]) every 2 weeks. Patients in the second cohort received flavopiridol (80 mg/m(2) as a 24h CI) for week 1 and then were dose escalated by 20mg/m(2) every 2 weeks to a maximal dose of 140 mg/m(2) in the absence of symptoms. Patients received up to 12 doses of therapy. RESULTS: : Thirteen patients with fludarabine-refractory or intolerant CLL enrolled in each cohort. Patients received a median of five treatments in each cohort with only two patients completing all 12 courses of therapy. There were no partial or complete responses noted. Toxicity was manageable in most patients and included anemia, thrombocytopenia, infections, diarrhea, and fatigue. CONCLUSIONS: : Flavopiridol as a 24-h continuous infusion has no clinical activity in relapsed, fludarabine-refractory CLL."
2265	"Two main isoforms of Fcgamma receptor II (CD 32) have been described in humans: activatory FcgammaRIIA and inhibitory FcgammaRIIB. We have previously reported that B cells from a subset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients express not only FcgammaRIIB, as normal B lymphocytes, but also the myeloid FcgammaRIIA. The aim of this study was to evaluate the signaling capacity of both FcgammaRII isoforms in B-CLL cells. We found that FcgammaRIIA expressed by leukemic cells failed to induce Ca(2+) mobilization or protein tyrosine phosphorylation, suggesting that the receptor is not functional. By contrast, FcgammaRIIB effectively diminished BCR-triggered ERK 1 phosphorylation, which indicates that it is able to transduce inhibitory signals in B-CLL cells. Moreover, we found that FcgammaRIIB homoaggregation in either B-CLL or non-malignant tonsillar B cells did not result in apoptosis as was reported for murine B splenocytes. Together, these results show that FcgammaRIIB, but not FcgammaRIIA is biologically active in B-CLL cells and might influence leukemic cell physiology in vivo."
2266	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) accounts for 95% of chronic leukemia cases and 25% of all leukemia. Despite the prevalence of CLL, progress in its treatment has been only modest over the past three decades. Based upon the ability of fludarabine to produce high-grade remissions especially among patients with low initial tumor mass, and the ability of alkylators to reduce tumor mass,  we hypothesized that sequential administration of a limited number of cycles of intermediate-dose cyclophosphamide followed by fludarabine could result in a larger percentage of patients with complete remissions (CRs). In all, 27 of the 49 eligible patients achieved overall responses of CR, unconfirmed complete remission (UCR), or PR, for a total response rate of 55% (95% confidence interval (CI) 40-69%). Considering the confounding medical issues of this patient population with advanced aggressive disease, the regimen was generally well tolerated. This study demonstrates that high-dose cyclophosphamide followed by fludarabine was relatively well tolerated in this group of advanced CLL patients. The study's criterion for testing whether the regimen is sufficiently effective to warrant further investigation was met: 14 (32%) of the first 44 eligible patients achieved CR or UCR."
2272	"Studies of gene expression profiling (GEP) have been successfully used for the identification of molecules to be employed as potential prognosticators. With the aim of identifying the immunophenotypic profile of B-CLL subsets with different prognoses, we investigated by flow cytometry the expression of 36 surface antigens in 117 cases, 113 with survival data. In analogy with GEP, results were  analyzed by applying unsupervised hierarchical algorithms (surface-antigen expression profiling, SEP). Distinct immunophenotypic groups (A, B1, B2 and C) were identified, group C (57/117) with longer survivals, as compared to groups A  (23/117), B1 (16/117) and B2 (21/117). The immunophenotypic signatures of these groups were characterized by the coordinated and differential over-expression of: i) CD62L, CD54 and CD49c (group C); ii) CD38 and CD49d (group A); iii) none of the above markers (group B1 and B2). Other molecules were either not expressed, widely expressed by all samples, or were variably expressed within the observed B-CLL subgroups, although without a clearly distinguishable pattern. By employing an identical approach for investigating the reactivity of B-cell panel monoclonal antibodies (B-mAbs) in B-CLLs (29 cases) and in 19 B and non-B leukemia/lymphoma  cell lines, we found mAbs (B012, B001, B006, B018, B019, B020, B017) mainly unreactive in all the samples, mAbs (B002, B010, B013, B014, B015) strongly reactive in B-CLLs and B-cell lines but not in non-B-cell lines, and mAbs recognizing antigens variably expressed in cell lines and B-CLLs. A hierarchical  clustering focused on B-CLLs alone, combining reactivity values for B-mAbs with the expression of CD62L and CD38, these latter antigens identified as leader markers of B-CLL subsets with different prognosis, demonstrated a correlation between CD62L expression and the reactivity of B007, B003, B011 and B005 mAbs. These mAbs may represent potentially novel markers with prognostic relevance in B-CLLs."
2273	"BAY 43-9006, a multikinase inhibitor that targets Raf, prevents tumor cell proliferation in vitro and inhibits diverse human tumor xenografts in vivo. The mechanism of action of BAY 43-9006 remains incompletely defined. In the present study, the effects of BAY 43-9006 on the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family member Mcl-1  were examined. Treatment of A549 lung cancer cells with BAY 43-9006 diminished Mcl-1 levels in a time- and dose-dependent manner without affecting other Bcl-2 family members. Similar BAY 43-9006-induced Mcl-1 downregulation was observed in  ACHN (renal cell), HT-29 (colon), MDA-MB-231 (breast), KMCH (cholangiocarcinoma), Jurkat (acute T-cell leukemia), K562 (chronic myelogenous leukemia) and MEC-2 (chronic lymphocytic leukemia) cells. Mcl-1 mRNA levels did not change in BAY 43-9006-treated cells. Instead, BAY 43-9006 enhanced proteasome-mediated Mcl-1 degradation. This Mcl-1 downregulation was followed by mitochondrial cytochrome c release and caspase activation as well as enhanced sensitivity to other proapoptotic agents. The caspase inhibitor Boc-D-fmk inhibited BAY 43-9006-induced caspase activation but not cytochrome c release. In contrast, Mcl-1 overexpression inhibited cytochrome c release and other features of BAY 43-9006-induced apoptosis. Conversely, Mcl-1 downregulation by short hairpin RNA  enhanced BAY 43-9006-induced apoptosis. Collectively, these findings demonstrate  that drug-induced Mcl-1 downregulation contributes to the proapoptotic effects of BAY 43-9006."
2274	"T lymphocytes and a subpopulation of B lymphocytes express the CD5 coreceptor. Its functional importance is evident from the multiple levels and developmental stages of the regulation of its expression. We here report the discovery of a novel regulatory exon upstream of the noncoding region of the CD5 gene in humans. This alternate exon 1 is designated E1B (with the conventional exon 1 renamed E1A) and was shown to regulate the expression of CD5. E1B-containing transcripts  existed exclusively in B lymphocytes and encoded a protein that was truncated and retained intracellularly. As a consequence, the amount of E1A-containing transcripts was down-regulated and the membrane CD5 expression was diminished in  the presence of E1B-containing transcripts. High levels of E1A transcripts were found in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and there were no E1A transcripts in 697 pre-B cells, which have no membrane CD5. Introduction of E1B into Jurkat cells reduced their membrane expression of CD5, and sequence analysis revealed that the E1B motif is a defective human endogenous retrovirus. A balance between the 2 alternative exons 1 might be central to the regulation of membrane CD5 in human B cells, and, through CD5-associated SH2-containing phosphatase 1, to the modulation of B-cell antigen receptor-transduced signals."
2275	"BCL11 genes play crucial roles in lymphopoiesis and have been associated with hematopoietic malignancies. Specifically, disruption of the BCL11B (B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 11B) locus is linked to T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and the loss of heterozygosity in mice results in T-cell  lymphoma. BCL11 proteins are related C2H2 zinc-finger transcription factors that  act as transcriptional repressors. Here, we demonstrate the association of the endogenous BCL11B with the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase (NuRD) complex, one of the major transcriptional corepressor complexes in mammalian cells. BCL11B complexes from T lymphocytes possess trichostatin A-sensitive histone deacetylase activity, confirming the functionality of the complexes. Analysis of the BCL11B-NuRD association demonstrated that BCL11B directly interacted with the metastasis-associated proteins MTA1 and MTA2 through the amino-terminal region. We provide evidence for the functional requirement of MTA1 in transcriptional repression mediated by BCL11B through the following: (1) overexpression of MTA1 enhanced the transcriptional repression mediated by BCL11B, (2) knockdown of MTA1 expression by small interfering RNA inhibited BCL11B transcriptional repression activity and (3) MTA1 was specifically recruited to a BCL11B targeted promoter. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that the NuRD complex mediates transcriptional repression function of  BCL11B."
2276	"BACKGROUND: A family history of hematopoietic malignancy is associated with an increased risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), although  the magnitude of the relative risk is unclear. We estimated the association between familial hematopoietic cancer and risk of lymphoma using validated, registry-based family data, and we also investigated whether associations between some environmental exposures and risk of lymphoma vary between individuals with and without such a family history. METHODS: In a population-based case-control study of malignant lymphoma, 1506 case patients and 1229 control subjects were linked to the Swedish Multi-Generation Register and then to the Swedish Cancer Register to ascertain history of cancer in first-degree relatives of patients with malignant lymphoma.  Multiple logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for associations with the risk of lymphoma. RESULTS: A history of hematopoietic malignancy in any first-degree relative was associated with an increased risk of all NHL (OR = 1.8, 95% CI = 1.2 to 2.5), common B-cell NHL subtypes, and HL. Relative risks were generally stronger in association with sibling hematopoietic cancer (OR for all NHL = 3.2, 95% CI = 1.3 to 7.6) than with parental hematopoietic cancer (OR = 1.6, 95% CI = 1.1 to 2.3).  A family history of NHL or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was associated with an increased risk of several NHL subtypes and HL, whereas familial multiple myeloma was associated with a higher risk of follicular lymphoma. There was no statistically significant heterogeneity in NHL risk associations with environmental factors between individuals with and without familial hematopoietic malignancy. CONCLUSIONS: The increased risk of NHL and HL among individuals with a family history of hematopoietic malignancy was approximately twofold for both lymphoma types. There was no evidence that etiologic associations varied between familial  NHL and nonfamilial NHL."
2277	"Since salicylate, a plant stress hormone, suppresses the growth of various types  of cancer cells, it was deemed of interest to investigate whether the jasmonate family of plant stress hormones is endowed with anti-cancer activities. Cell lines representing a wide spectrum of malignancies, including prostate, breast and lung, exhibit sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of methyl jasmonate (MJ).  Jasmonates induced death in leukemic cells isolated from the blood of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients and increased significantly the survival of lymphoma-bearing mice. Among the naturally occurring jasmonates, MJ is the most active, while the synthetic methyl-4,5-didehydrojasmonate, was approximately 29-fold more active than MJ. The cytotoxic activity of MJ is independent of transcription and translation. Studies have suggested several mechanisms of action. It appears that while prolonged exposures to relatively low concentrations of jasmonates induce growth arrest and re-differentiation in myeloid leukemia cells, higher concentrations of MJ induce direct perturbation of cancer cell mitochondria, leading to the release of cytochrome c and eventual cell death. A most important characteristic of jasmonates is their ability to selectively kill cancer cells while sparing normal cells. Even within a mixed population of normal and leukemic cells derived from the blood of CLL patients, MJ killed preferentially the leukemic cells. In conclusion, jasmonates present a  unique class of anti-cancer compounds which deserves continued research at the basic and pharmaceutical levels in order to yield novel chemotherapeutic agents against a range of neoplastic diseases."
2278	"The zeta-associated protein of 70 kDa (ZAP-70) is expressed in patients with aggressive chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We found that ZAP-70+ CLL cells expressed activated heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp90) with high binding affinity for  Hsp90 inhibitors, such as 17-allyl-amino-demethoxy-geldanamycin (17-AAG), whereas normal lymphocytes or ZAP-70- CLL cells expressed nonactivated Hsp90. Activated Hsp90 bound and stabilized ZAP-70, which behaved like an Hsp90 client protein only in CLL cells. Treatment with Hsp90 inhibitors such as 17-AAG and 17-dimethylaminoethylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-DMAG) induced ZAP-70 degradation and apoptosis in CLL cells but not in T cells, and also impaired B-cell receptor signaling in leukemia cells. Transduction of ZAP-70- CLL cells with an adenovirus encoding ZAP-70 activated Hsp90 and specifically rendered the  leukemia cells sensitive to 17-AAG. These data indicate that Hsp90 is necessary for ZAP-70 expression and activity; that ZAP-70 is unique among Hsp90 clients, in that its chaperone-dependency is conditional on the cell type in which it is expressed; and also that ZAP-70 is required for cell survival and signaling in CLL. Additionally, ZAP-70 expression in CLL cells confers markedly heightened sensitivity to 17-AAG or 17-DMAG, suggesting that these or other Hsp90 inhibitors could be valuable therapeutically in patients with aggressive CLL."
2279	"Flavopiridol is active against chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells in vitro  and in the treatment of advanced stage disease, but the mechanisms of these actions remain unclear. Originally developed as a general cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, flavopiridol is a potent transcriptional suppressor through the inhibition of positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb; CDK9/cyclin T). P-TEFb phosphorylates the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II to promote transcriptional elongation. Because most CLL cells are not actively cycling, and  their viability is dependent upon the continuous expression of antiapoptotic proteins, we hypothesized that flavopiridol induces apoptosis in CLL cells through the transcriptional down-regulation of such proteins. This study demonstrated that flavopiridol inhibited the phosphorylation of the CTD of RNA polymerase II in primary CLL cells and reduced RNA synthesis. This was associated with a decline of the transcripts and the levels of short-lived antiapoptotic proteins such as myeloid cell leukemia 1 (Mcl-1), and resulted in the induction of apoptosis. The B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) protein level remained stable, although its mRNA was consistently reduced, suggesting that the outcome of transcriptional inhibition by flavopiridol is governed by the intrinsic stability of the individual transcripts and proteins. The dependence of CLL-cell survival on short-lived oncoproteins may provide the biochemical basis for the therapeutic index in response to flavopiridol."
2280	"The importance of genetic factors in the etiology of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is suggested by case-control and cohort studies. Most previous studies have been  too small to estimate accurately risks of specific categories of lymphoproliferative malignancies in relatives of NHL cases or to quantify the contribution of NHL case characteristics to familial risk. We have overcome sample size limitations and potential recall bias by using large databases from Sweden and Denmark. Diagnoses of lymphoproliferative malignancies were compared in 70,006 first-degree relatives of 26,089 NHL cases (including 7,432 with subtype information) versus 161,352 first-degree relatives of 58,960 matched controls. Relatives of NHL cases were at significantly increased risk for NHL [relative risk (RR), 1.73; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.39-2.15], Hodgkin  lymphoma (RR, 1.41; 95% CI, 1.0-1.97), and nonsignificantly for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL; RR, 1.31; 95% CI, 0.93-1.85). No increased risk was found for multiple myeloma among case relatives. Findings with respect to siblings compared with parents and offspring or with respect to age at diagnosis  of proband were inconsistent. In both populations, relatives of cases with an aggressive NHL subtype were at substantially increased risk of NHL (combined RR,  3.56; 95% CI, 1.80-7.02). We conclude that NHL has an important familial component, which is shared with Hodgkin lymphoma and CLL. We estimate that the absolute lifetime risk for a first-degree relative of an NHL case to develop NHL  is 3.6% (compared with a population risk of 2.1%) and higher if the index case had an aggressive subtype of NHL."
2281	"PURPOSE: Human CD40 ligand activates the malignant B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells and enhances their capacity to present tumor antigens. Human interleukin-2 further potentiates the immunogenicity of human CD40 ligand in preclinical murine models. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We prepared autologous B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells that expressed both human CD40 ligand (>90% positive) and human interleukin-2 (median secretion, 1,822 pg/mL/10(6) cells; range, 174-3,604 pg). Nine patients were enrolled in a phase I trial, receiving three to eight s.c. vaccinations. RESULTS: Vaccinations were administered without evidence of significant local or  systemic toxicity. A B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia-specific T-cell response was detected in seven patients. The mean frequencies of IFN-gamma, granzyme-B, and IL-5 spot-forming cells were 1/1,230, 1/1,450, and 1/4,500, respectively, representing a 43- to 164-fold increase over the frequency before vaccine administration. Three patients produced leukemia-specific immunoglobulins. Three  patients had >50% reduction in the size of affected lymph nodes. Nonetheless, the antitumor immune responses were observed only transiently once immunization ceased. High levels of circulating CD4+/CD25+/LAG-3+/FoxP-3+ immunoregulatory T cells were present before, during and after treatment and in vitro removal of these cells increased the antileukemic T-cell reactivity. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that immune responses to B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia can be obtained with human CD40 ligand/human interleukin-2-expressing s.c. vaccines but that these responses are transient. High levels of circulating regulatory T cells are present, and it will be of interest to see if their removal in vivo augments and prolongs the antitumor immune response."
2282	"Flow cytometric analysis of abnormal lymphocyte populations in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been widely reported to show weak expression of surface immunoglobulin (sIg). The international scoring system to help discriminate between CLL and other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders lists this as the first of 5 criteria worth 1 point each. In the present study, 30 cases of CLL were studied for surface and cytoplasmic Ig expression. 23 of these  30 (76.7%) cases were positive for sIg. Of these 23, 14 cases (60.9%) showed moderate to bright sIg expression. All of these 23 cases were positive for CD5 and CD23; all were negative for CD10 and only 6 (26.1%) were positive for FMC7. 27 of 30 (90.0%) cases expressed cytoplasmic immunoglobulin (cIg) compared to 5%  reported by others. This shows that cytoplasmic Ig occurs in a much greater percentage of cases than reported previously. 23 of 30 (76.7%) cases showed positivity for both surface and cytoplasmic Ig, with 15 showing kappa light chain restriction and 8 showing lambda light chain restriction. Six expressed cytoplasmic Ig only, with 4 showing kappa light chain restriction and 2 showing lambda light chain restriction. One case expressed neither cytoplasmic nor surface Ig. CD38 positivity portends a worse prognosis. Of the 29 cases tested for CD38, 13 (44.8%) were positive. Of these 13 cases, 12 were in the surface Ig/cytoplasmic Ig+ group and 1 in the cytoplasmic Ig+ group only. Also, of the 23 cases tested for CD22 expression, 16 (69.6%) were positive. These data question the use of both "weak" surface Ig expression and lack of CD22 expression as valid scoring criteria for CLL."
2283	"Since the advent of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation more than 40 years ago, numerous methods of transplantation have been developed, modified and improved upon. Although hematopoietic stem cell transplantation has been used in  a variety of malignant diseases since then, its use in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia has recently started to gain interest. Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia are generally elderly, and because of its relatively benign  course, they were not considered suitable candidates for hematopoietic stem cell  transplantation. Nonetheless, there have been marked improvements in transplantation techniques, including better conditioning regimens that have decreased treatment-related morbidity and mortality. In this article, the authors review the most recent data on hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia as well as the change in risk stratification based on newer  prognostic factors and its impact on treatment decisions in chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
2288	"B cell-activating factor receptor (BAFF-R) is one of three known receptors for BAFF, a critical regulator of B- and T-cell function. In mice, BAFF-R is required for B-cell maturation and survival, and in mice and humans, the overproduction of BAFF is associated with autoimmune disease. We sought to determine the normal pattern of BAFF-R expression at specific stages of B- and T-cell development and  whether this pattern of expression corresponds with related B- and T-cell neoplasms. Most circulating human B cells and a small subset of T cells are BAFF-R-positive. In reactive lymphoid tissues, BAFF-R is expressed by B cells colonizing the mantle zones, by a subset of cells within germinal centers, and rare cells in the interfollicular T-cell zone. BAFF-R is also expressed by B cells colonizing the splenic marginal zone. Seventy-seven (78%) of 116 cases of B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders were BAFF-R-positive by immunohistochemical  and/or flow cytometric immunophenotypic analysis, including most cases of mantle  cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. In contrast, cases of precursor B lymphoblastic lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, and nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma exhibit weak to negative staining for BAFF-R. All cases of classical Hodgkin lymphoma and T-cell lymphomas were BAFF-R-negative, including all cases of anaplastic large cell lymphoma, adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma, angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma, and peripheral T-cell lymphoma, unspecified. These findings highlight BAFF-R as a marker of both normal and neoplastic B cells and raise the possibility that BAFF-R expression is necessary for the survival of a subset of neoplastic B lymphocytes analogous to its known role in promoting normal B-cell maturation and survival."
2289	"A 70-year-old woman was diagnosed with B-cell-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) in May 2001. Initial white blood cell (WBC) count was 37 x 10(9)/l and most of the cells were mature small lymphocytes. Surface antigen analysis of these lymphocytes revealed positive reactions for CD19, 20, 25, 5, and lambda-light chain. Despite her Rai stage-0 status, various treatments were ineffective, including cyclophosphamide; fludarabine; 6-mercaptopurine; a combination of vincristine, cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and adriamycin; and etoposide. Her WBC count increased, ranging from 150 to 450 x 10(9)/l, with marked splenomegaly, and symptoms of meningitis, such as headache, ophthalmalgia, hearing disturbance, and abnormal behavior, being manifested. The WBC count in the cerebrospinal fluid was elevated to 134/microl. The surface phenotype of these cells was identical to that of circulating lymphocytes, indicating meningeal involvement of leukemia, a rare complication in B-CLL. At the time of this WBC elevation, 24% of circulating lymphocytes had prominent nucleoli, indicating progression of the disease to CLL/prolymphocytic leukemia. Her symptoms disappeared after repeated intrathecal injections of methotrexate and dexamethazone. After four courses of treatment of the refractory B-CLL with rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, the WBC count returned to normal levels and the splenomegaly disappeared. She is currently well, with sustained remission, as of April 2004."
2290	"This review focuses on two chemotherapeutic agents belonging to the family of purine analogs, 9-beta-D-arabinosyl-2-fluoroadenine-5'-monophosphate (F-ara-AMP,  fludarabine), which is the soluble form of F-ara-A, and 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CdA, cladribine). Both compounds display remarkable activity in malignancies arising from the clonal expansion of lymphocytes, and particularly in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). These analogs are prodrugs that must be converted into their respective nucleotides as an essential requirement for cytotoxicity. Triphosphate analogs inhibit various processes involved in DNA and RNA synthesis. Moreover, the effect of nucleoside analogs in  leukemic cells may involve modulation of apoptosis pathways, cell-cycle control,  or signal transduction pathways. These findings are of crucial importance because alterations in these pathways may be involved in leukemic cell resistance toward  nucleoside analogs and, hence, constitute new molecular targets to sensitize leukemic cells to these drugs."
2291	"Hypersensitivity to mosquito bites (HMB) is known to be an allergic reaction and  also a skin symptom in some cases of natural killer cell leukemia/lymphoma associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. We describe a patient who had suffered from HMB for 5 years, and subsequently developed mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), which resembled chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the early phase. EBV monoclonality was not detected in lymph nodes by Southern blotting. Serum levels  of interleukin-4 and IgE were increased, but they decreased and HMB disappeared when MCL was predominant. We consider that HMB may be a potential sign of MCL."
2293	"PURPOSE: To determine the efficacy and safety of a newly developed concomitant administration of fludarabine and alemtuzumab (FluCam) in patients with relapsed  or refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 36 patients were treated in this phase II study  (median age, 61.47 years; mean number of prior chemotherapies, 2.6; Binet stage C, n = 28). After an initial dose escalation of alemtuzumab over 3 days, alemtuzumab 30 mg and fludarabine 30 mg/m2 were administered on 3 consecutive days. Treatment was repeated after 28 days for up to six cycles. Restaging (following National Cancer Institute criteria) was carried out after cycles 2 and 4 and 1 month after the end of treatment. RESULTS: The overall response rate was 83% (11 complete responses, 19 partial responses, one stable disease, and five progressive diseases). Two patients with  progressive disease developed fungal pneumonias, and one patient died as a result of Escherichia coli sepsis. Two subclinical cytomegalovirus reactivations occurred. CONCLUSION: The new FluCam regimen is effective and feasible in patients with relapsed and refractory B-CLL."
2294	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have defects in both cellular and humoral immunity. Since CD152 (CTLA-4) plays a critical role in downregulating T-cell responses, we studied the expression of surface and cytoplasmic CD152 (sCD152 and cCD152, respectively) in freshly isolated T cells from treatment-naïve patients with CLL. CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from these patients demonstrated significantly increased sCD152 and cCD152 compared to normal donors. Furthermore, these patients had an increased proportion of the regulatory CD4(+)/CD25(+)/CD152+ subset that correlated with advanced Rai stage, unfavorable cytogenetics and low serum IgG and IgA levels. The expression of sCD152 by T cells also correlated with ZAP-70 expression by CLL B cells. The proportion of CD4(+)/CD25+ cells was also correlated with unmutated immunoglobulin heavy chain  variable gene status. Blockade of CD152 with monoclonal antibody (mAb) in proliferation assays was associated with potent T-cell proliferation in response  to autologous and allogeneic CD40-activated CLL B cells. In summary, T cells from patients with CLL may be primed for anergy by expressing increased amounts of CD152; anti-CD152 mAb may represent a therapeutic opportunity to enhance an immune response against autologous leukemia cells."
2295	"BACKGROUND: We previously published an early report of a randomized, multicenter  trial on the efficacy and toxicity of cladribine (2-CdA) + prednisone (P) compared with chlorambucil (Chl) + P in previously untreated patients with progressive or symptomatic chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Here we present the final report of this study. MATERIAL/METHODS: Of 229 patients, 126 received 2-CdA+P and 103 Chl+P. Patients with no response or progression after three courses or who relapsed earlier than  12 months after completing one treatment were switched to the other. Patients who relapsed later were retreated with the same schedule as before. RESULTS: Thirty-three patients were retreated with 2-CdA+P and 19 with Chl+P. Overall response (and complete response) rates were 35% (6%) and 47% (16%), respectively. In 50 patients initially treated with Chl+P and then with 2-CdA+P,  complete response (CR) was achieved in 12 (24%) and overall response (OR) in 32 (64%). In 28 patients originally treated with 2-CdA+P and then with Chl+P, CR in  1 (3%, p=0.01) and OR in 6 (21%, p=0.003) were obtained. We found no statistically significant difference in overall survival time in patients treated initially with 2-CdA+P and Chl+P aged 60 years (4.63 and 5.27 years, respectively, p=0.45), 60-70 years (3.29 and 3.14 years, p=0.79), and >70 years (1.53 and 1.93 years, p=0.11). CONCLUSIONS: 2-CdA+P is significantly more effective as a second-line treatment and re-treatment than Chl+P. However, we found a trend to longer survival in elderly patients treated with Chl+P."
2296	"Heat-shock protein-90 (HSP90) inhibitors are currently being used in phase I clinical trials for treating patients with a variety of neoplasms including lymphomas. Using immunohistochemical methods, we assessed for HSP90 expression in 412 cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In B-cell lymphomas, HSP90 was moderately to strongly expressed in all cases of Burkitt's lymphoma (5/5, 100%), and in subsets of follicular lymphoma (17/28, 61%), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (27/46, 59%),  nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (6/16, 38%), plasma cell neoplasms (14/39, 36%), small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (3/9, 33%), mantle  cell lymphoma (12/38, 32%) and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (3/10, 30%). HSP90 was weakly expressed in six of 14 (43%) cases of extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue. In T-cell lymphomas, HSP90 was moderately to strongly expressed in subsets of anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (14/24, 58%; 9/12 ALK+ and 5/12 ALK-),  precursor-T-cell lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (20/65, 31%), unspecified peripheral T-cell lymphoma (8/43, 23%) and angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (2/17, 12%). HSP90 was weakly expressed in seven of 58 (12%) cases of mycosis fungoides. We conclude that HSP90 is commonly expressed in a subset of many types of B- and T-cell lymphoma. These data suggest that many lymphoma types are suitable targets for modulation of HSP90 activity, and that HSP90 inhibitors are  a potential investigational therapy for lymphoma patients."
2297	"Advances made in the field of chemotherapy and radiotherapy have considerably increased the survival of patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Unfortunately, these antiblastic therapies have also increased the risk of late complications such as  second tumors, especially second lung cancers. Although the role of ionizing radiations in carcinogenesis is now clear, less is known about the damage caused  by chemotherapy, immunodeficiency induced by drugs or hematological pathologies,  and cigarette smoking. In HD, the relative risk (RR) of second lung cancer increases considerably in relation to the dose of ionizing radiation given to the patient, with an RR of 9.6 when more than 9 Gy are administered. Some studies have reported a significantly higher risk of second lung cancers in smokers compared with nonsmokers ( p = .03). The role of chemotherapy in the development  of second lung cancers has yet to be determined. Although some authors correlate  a greater risk with an increased number of chemotherapy cycles, others maintain that chemotherapy increases the risk of second lung cancer only if associated with cigarette smoking. Even less is known about the correlation between NHL and  second lung cancer. Although the RR is higher in long-term NHL survivors than in  healthy individuals (RR = 1.36), the heterogeneity of histotype and treatment does not permit us to confirm a correlation with chemotherapy and smoking. Conversely, in CLL, the development of second lung cancer appears to be linked to the immunodeficiency that accompanies this hematological malignancy. This is confirmed by the identical RR (1.66) for CLL patients subjected to chemotherapy and for those who have only follow-up."
2299	"PURPOSE: To conduct a phase I trial of recombinant immunotoxin BL22, an anti-CD22 Fv fragment fused to truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-six pretreated patients with CD22+ non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL; n = 4), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL; n = 11), and hairy cell leukemia (HCL; n = 31) received 265 cycles at 3 to 50 microg/Kg every other day x 3 doses. RESULTS: BL22 was active in HCL, with 19 complete remissions (CRs; 61%) and six partial responses (PRs; 19%) in 31 patients. Of 19 CRs, 11 were achieved after one cycle and eight after two to 14 cycles. All 25 responders benefited clinically with one cycle. The CR rate was 86% in patients enrolled at > or = 40  microg/Kg every other day x 3, and 41% at lower doses (P = .011). The median duration for CR was 36 months (range, 5 to 66 months), and eight patients remain  in CR at 45 months (range, 29 to 66 months). Lower but significant activity occurred in CLL. Neutralizing antibodies occurred in 11 (24%) of 46 patients (all HCL). A reversible hemolytic uremic syndrome requiring plasmapheresis was observed in one patient with NHL during cycle 1 and in four patients with HCL during cycle 2 or 3. The maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) evaluated at cycle 1 was 40 microg/Kg IV. QOD x 3. The most common toxicities at 30 to 50 microg/Kg every other day x 3 included hypoalbuminemia, transaminase elevations, fatigue, and edema. CONCLUSION: BL22 was well tolerated and highly effective in HCL, even after one cycle. Phase II testing is underway to define the efficacy with one cycle and to  study safety when additional cycles are needed for optimal response."
2300	"Globally suppressed T-cell function has been described in many patients with cancer to be a major hurdle for the development of clinically efficient cancer immunotherapy. Inhibition of antitumor immune responses has been mainly linked to inhibitory factors present in cancer patients. More recently, increased frequencies of CD4+CD25hi regulatory T cells (Treg cells) have been described as  an additional mechanism reducing immunity. We assessed 73 patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and 42 healthy controls and demonstrated significantly increased frequencies of cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein  4 (CTLA4+)-, Forkhead box P3 (FOXP3+)-, glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor-related protein (GITR+)-, CD62L+-, transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1+)-, interleukin 10 (IL-10+)-Treg cells in patients with CLL, with highest frequencies in untreated or progressing patients presenting with extended disease. Most surprisingly, in the majority of patients with CLL treated with fludarabine-containing therapy regimens the inhibitory function of Treg cells was decreased or even abrogated. In addition, frequencies of Treg cells were significantly decreased after therapy with fludarabine. In light of similar  findings for cyclophosphamide the combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide might be further exploited in strategies reducing immunosuppression prior to cancer immunotherapy."
2301	"PURPOSE: To determine if RNA-directed nucleoside analogue, 8-NH(2)-adenosine, induces cell death and if that is accompanied with transcription inhibition of the key survival factors of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Primary lymphocytes from CLL patients were incubated with 10 micromol/L 8-NH(2)-adenosine for 2, 4, and 6 or 8 hours. The accumulation of analogue triphosphate and the decline in endogenous ATP pool were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Inhibition of global RNA and protein synthesis was measured and correlated with specific decline in transcript and protein levels of MCL-1, XIAP, and BCL-2, the key survival factors of CLL. These  biochemical and molecular end points were related to cell death of these quiescent lymphocytes. RESULTS: In vitro incubations of CLL lymphocytes with 8-NH(2)-adenosine resulted  in rapid but heterogeneous accumulation of 8-NH(2)-ATP (390-680 micromol/L), with a concomitant decline in endogenous ATP (median, >50% by 4 hour). Global RNA synthesis was decreased in all samples and was associated with a decline in MCL-1, XIAP, and BCL-2 transcripts. There was a parallel decrease in the protein  level of MCL-1 and XIAP but not BCL-2. These biochemical changes were accompanied by apoptosis. CONCLUSION: The evidence of CLL cell death with complementary changes in the expression of survival proteins provides a molecular rationale for using 8-NH(2)-adenosine as a therapeutic agent for this indolent leukemia."
2302	"Immune-based treatments represent a new group of therapeutic strategies for patients with cancer, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), that employ immune effector mechanisms. Among these strategies is passive immunotherapy with  monoclonal antibody, alone or in combination with chemotherapy. Active immunotherapy strategies currently under development include vaccines, administration of expanded and activated T cells, and allogeneic stem cell transplantation. These immune-based strategies represent new treatments with potentially complementary mechanisms of action to standard therapies and signify  major advances in treatments for patients with CLL."
2303	"A 69-year-old male with chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with iron deficiency anemia and post-prandial abdominal fullness. Endoscopy showed a large  polyp on a stalk, protruding through the pylorus into the duodenum causing intermittent gastric outlet obstruction. While prolapsing gastric antral polyps are usually benign and hyperplastic, inflammatory or regenerative in type, excisional snare polypectomy here led to complete resolution of his symptoms, but showed a malignant polyp."
2304	"Improved care of patients with small B-cell lymphomas (SBCLs) is likely to result from the ongoing discovery of molecular markers that better define these malignant neoplasms. We identified multiple gene loci whose DNA methylation patterns differed between 3 types of SBCL: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, and grades I and II follicular lymphoma. This analysis was performed using an oligonucleotide microarray that allowed determination of the DNA methylation status of 156 loci in 38 genes. Combined bisulfite restriction analysis and methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction were used to validate the differential methylation of 6 of these genes. By using non-Hodgkin lymphoma cell lines as models, these genes were examined further for methylation and gene expression relationships. This study illustrates nonrandom epigenetic alterations in SBCLs that seem to preferentially involve lymphomas of germinal center derivation."
2306	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (LPDs) show clear evidence of familial aggregation, but the inherited basis is largely unknown. To identify a susceptibility gene for CLL, we conducted a genomewide linkage analysis of 115 pedigrees, using a high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array containing 11,560 markers. Multipoint  linkage analyses were undertaken using both nonparametric (model-free) and parametric (model-based) methods. Our results confirm that the presence of high linkage disequilibrium (LD) between SNP markers can lead to inflated nonparametric linkage (NPL) and LOD scores. After the removal of high-LD SNPs, we obtained a maximum NPL of 3.14 (P=.0008) on chromosome 11p11. The same genomic position also yielded the highest multipoint heterogeneity LOD (HLOD) score under both dominant (HLOD 1.95) and recessive (HLOD 2.78) models. In addition, four other chromosomal positions (5q22-23, 6p22, 10q25, and 14q32) displayed HLOD scores >1.15 (which corresponds to a nominal P value <.01). None of the regions coincided with areas of common chromosomal abnormalities frequently observed for  CLL. These findings strengthen the argument for an inherited predisposition to CLL and related B-cell LPDs."
2307	"The purpose of this review was answer 2 main questions: what is the impact of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) on the patient's quality of life and how great is the economic burden of this disease on the health care payers and providers. Patients with CLL typically do not receive any treatment soon after the initial diagnosis. Although there is no known cure for CLL yet, when treated, the patients receive aggressive and expensive therapies (eg, chemotherapy or bone marrow transplantation). A rigorous and systematic literature review was performed of English-language articles published in 1990-2002. It was supplemented with additional articles published before 1990 for completeness and  additional references to fill the gaps identified in the published medical literature. The literature on the quality of life (QOL) of CLL patients is very limited. We identified only 8 articles, and none of them analyzed the QOL in untreated CLL patients. Because CLL is a disease affecting adults, especially the elderly, all 8 studies measured the QOL in the adult population. QOL difficulties include fear of death and disability, problems gaining employment or health insurance, and fatigue. No specific leukemia or CLL instruments but general QOL instruments (eg, I-HRQL) were identified and some cancer-specific ones (eg, EORTC QLQ-C30, FACT-G, FACT Anemia, FACT-Fatigue). Interestingly, a FACT-Bone Marrow Transplant instrument exists, although we found no study on CLL that used it. Even the literature on the economic burden of CLL is very limited. We identified  13 studies on the cost of CLL: Most of them were cost-identification or cost-comparison studies, and 5 dealt with the cost-effectiveness of medical interventions to treat CLL. Cost drivers identified for CLL were the chemotherapy costs, intravenous immunoglobulin costs, transplantation costs, and costs associated with the differential staining cytotoxicity assay. We identified very  few articles on the QOL of CLL patients and therefore cannot draw strong conclusions about the key QOL predictors. Nevertheless, patients with anemia were found to have a better QOL if they had higher hemoglobin counts and good response to erythropoietin treatment. The articles published seem to demonstrate that the  older the age of the patient was, the poorer the QOL. The main cost drivers identified for CLL were related to the treatment chosen (eg, chemotherapy, bone marrow transplantation). There are hints that higher costs often result from the  delivery of non-optimal therapy that leads to adverse events, infections, and drug resistance. In summary, the impact of this disease on the health care budget of the different health care providers and payers as well as on the patient's QOL is substantially unknown, calling for appropriate economic and QOL studies."
2308	"In the context of a population-based case-control study in Italy, the authors investigated the possible association between the personal use of hair dyes and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), leukemia, multiple myeloma, and Hodgkin's disease.  They collected all incident cases of hematolymphopoietic malignancies; the control group was formed with a random sample of the general population. Overall, the authors interviewed 2,737 research subjects and 1,779 control subjects. Among women, the authors found no association between ever using hair dyes and the risk of hematolymphopoietic malignancies. However, for permanent hair dyes, the authors observed a slightly increased risk of lymphocytic leukemia (odds ratio [OR] = 1.3; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.8-2.2) and of follicular subtypes of NHL (OR= 1.3; 95% CI = 0.8-2.0). Women who used black hair dye colors were at an  increased risk of developing leukemia (OR = 1.9; 95% CI = 1.0-3.4), in particular chronic lymphocytic leukemia (OR = 3.0; 95% CI = 1.1-7.5). In spite of the lack of information on the timing and frequency of hair dye use and the imprecision of the ORs, associations were suggested between leukemia and permanent black hair dye use and follicular NHL and the use of permanent hair dyes."
2309	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) treated with adenovirus CD154 (Ad-CD154, CD40 ligand [CD40L]) gene therapy experienced rapid reductions in leukemia cell counts and lymph node size associated with the induced expression of Fas (CD95). However, CLL cells initially resist CD95-mediated apoptosis within the first 3 days after CD40 ligation in vitro. Thereafter, they become sensitive, which is associated with the CD40-induced expression of the proapoptotic protein  B-cell leukemia 2 homology 3 (BH3) interacting domain death agonist (Bid). We hypothesized that the initial resistance to CD95-mediated apoptosis may be due to the high-level expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) by CLL cells. Consistent with this, CLL cells from patients 1 day after treatment with autologous Ad-CD154-transduced CLL cells became sensitive to CD95-mediated apoptosis following treatment with a novel XIAP inhibitor, 1540-14. Similarly, 1540-14 specifically enhanced CD95-mediated apoptosis of CLL cells following CD40 ligation in vitro. Immunoblot analyses demonstrated that treatment with 1540-14 allowed CD40-stimulated CLL cells to experience high-level activation of caspases-8 and -3 and cleavage of poly(adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose) polymerase following CD95 ligation. This study demonstrates that distal apoptosis regulators contribute to the initial resistance of CD40-activated CLL cells to CD95-mediated apoptosis and suggests that XIAP inhibitors might enhance the effectiveness of immune-based treatment strategies that target CD40, such as CD154 gene therapy."
2310	"Growth and survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells are favored by  interactions between CLL and nontumoral accessory cells. CLL cells express CXCR4  chemokine receptors that direct leukemia cell chemotaxis. Marrow stromal cells or nurselike cells constitutively secrete CXCL12, the ligand for CXCR4, thereby attracting and rescuing CLL B cells from apoptosis in a contact-dependent fashion. Therefore, the CXCR4-CXCL12 axis represents a potential therapeutic target in CLL. We evaluated the most active CXCR4-specific antagonists (T140, TC14012, TN14003) for their capacity to inhibit CXCL12 responses in CLL cells. T140, or its analogs, inhibited actin polymerization, chemotaxis, and migration of CLL cells beneath stromal cells. CXCL12-induced phosphorylation of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was abolished by CXCR4 antagonists. TC14012 and TN14003 antagonized the antiapoptotic effect of synthetic CXCL12 and stromal cell-mediated protection of CLL cells from spontaneous apoptosis. Furthermore, we found that stromal cells protected CLL cells from chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. Treatment with CXCR4 antagonists resensitized CLL cells cultured with stromal cells to fludarabine-induced apoptosis. These findings demonstrate that CXCR4 blocking agents effectively antagonize CXCL12-induced migratory and signaling responses and stromal protection of CLL cells from spontaneous or fludarabine-induced apoptosis. As such, small molecular CXCR4 antagonists may have activity in the treatment of patients with this disease."
2311	"Nucleoside analogs and monoclonal antibodies are commonly used to treat lymphoproliferative disorders and have become established as the treatment of choice in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, and follicular lymphomas, as well as a number of other malignant lymphoid neoplasms. When used in standard doses, these agents have a low incidence of extramedullary side effects resulting in their inclusion in a number of combination regimens. The most important complications associated with these drugs are myelosuppression, immunosuppression and infections. This is further accentuated when they are used  in combination with other drugs such as alkylating agents. Several investigators  have attempted to delineate the risk factors predicting the risk of infections associated with these agents. Furthermore, risk-based strategies to decrease the  incidence of these infectious complications have been proposed."
2312	"Targeted therapy for malignant hematologic disorders has become a realistic goal  with the identification of novel antibodies that are designed to act against highly expressed antigens on malignant clones. CD52 is abundantly expressed on malignant lymphocytes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that targets CD52 and induces cell death by several mechanisms that are still under investigation. The initial positive results of many clinical studies that explored the activity of alemtuzumab in relapsed and/or refractory CLL have provoked many oncologists to incorporate this agent into the treatment paradigm of this disease. Prophylactic antibiotics for the duration of therapy or until patients are no longer immunocompromised are recommended. This review summarizes the clinical experience with alemtuzumab that eventually led to its approval. Recent novel prognostic factors and trends in CLL therapy are also reviewed."
2313	"A dramatic change has taken place in therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia over the past 15 years. In 1990, available therapy produced complete responses in less than 5% of treated patients. This is in marked contrast to modern regimens,  which can reliably produce complete responses in over 50% of patients. This remarkable improvement is completely attributable to the introduction of new active agents. These new agents include three purine analogues (pentostatin, fludarabine, and cladribine) and two monoclonal antibodies (rituximab and alemtuzumab). Novel combinations of these agents have emerged as effective new therapies for previously untreated and pretreated patients. Clinical studies indicate that such combinations can induce higher response rates--including complete responses--than single-agent therapy. Those patients who achieve a complete response have superior survival, compared with those who only achieve a  partial response. Though not yet demonstrated in a prospective randomized trial,  treatment approaches aimed at achieving high-quality responses may one day lead to an improvement in survival for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and, ultimately, offer the hope of curative therapy in these patients."
2314	"BACKGROUND: The role of environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) in the causation of lung and breast cancer has been repeatedly evaluated over recent years. In contrast, its impact on the risk of adult leukemia has received little attention. METHODS: We used the lifetime residential and occupational ETS exposure histories from a population-based sample of 1068 incident and histologically confirmed adult leukemia cases and 5039 population controls age 20 to 74 years to evaluate  the relationship between ETS exposure and adult leukemia risk among nonsmokers in Canada. The duration of exposure and smoker-years index were used as indices of ETS exposure. We restricted our analysis to the 266 case and 1326 control subjects who reported being lifetime nonsmokers and provided residential ETS exposure history for at least 75% of their lifetime. RESULTS: No association was found for most leukemia subtypes, and in particular for acute myeloid leukemia. In contrast, the risk for chronic lymphocytic leukemia was clearly associated with ETS exposure, with an adjusted odds ratio of 2.3 (95% confidence interval = 1.2-4.5) for more than 83 smoker-years of residential exposure and 2.4 (1.3-4.3) for more than 72 smoker-years of occupational exposure. There was a dose-response relationship for chronic lymphocytic leukemia with both indices of exposure. Risk was not higher with recent exposure, using time-window-exposure analyses. CONCLUSIONS: Regular long-term ETS exposure may be a risk factor for chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
2316	"BK polyoma virus has a worldwide distribution in the human population. Primary BK infection takes place during childhood, with the virus remaining latent in many sites. Immunosuppressive states can lead to viral reactivation associated with many clinical sequelae. We report a case of fatal BK-related pneumonia in a 69-year-old patient who was immunocompromised because of chemotherapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Immunohistochemical, in situ hybridization, and polymerase  chain reaction studies on paraffin-embedded lung tissue proved BK virus as the etiologic agent of pneumonia. The histological picture was remarkable for numerous intranuclear large basophilic viral inclusions with ground-glass appearance mainly in type II pneumocytes. Similar to many other infectious agents, BK virus is emerging as an important pathogen in immunocompromised patients, making it important to consider in the differential diagnosis."
2317	"A large number and variety of neoplasias of the hematopoietic system have been successfully subjected to CGH analysis. The obtained data shed light on genomic alterations beyond the basic rearrangements known as 'causative aberrations' in many of these diseases. Some of these alterations seem to play an important role  in disease progression and specificity of the disease. They can also be associated with clinical parameters like response to therapy and survival. The patterns of genomic alterations found by CGH can characterize certain disease entities and differentiate them from others. If the chromosomal segments affected in > 10% of the cases of each basic disease entity [acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM)] are compared, most of the frequently involved chromosomal  regions differ from entity to entity in the leukemias. The only exception are losses on 13q which are common to CLL and multiple myeloma. However, these patterns can also deduce chromosomal locations basically involved in the processes of hematopoietic oncogenesis, which is particularly evident in lymphomas. For instance, gain of 18q is shared by all lymphoma entities presented, and gain of 3q, 7q and 12q is commonly found in three of the differentiated classes. It is also of practical interest to control the differences and consistencies of imbalances found in nodular and in organ-confined lymphomas. Besides aneuploidies, which can also be readily detected by chromosome banding, CGH defines imbalances of chromosomal segments, which can become the basis for searching for neoplasia-related genes. With respect to their clinical significance, the presence of genomic imbalances is associated with disease progression and, therefore, poorer prognosis."
2319	"BACKGROUND: Specific cutaneous infiltrates in patients with leukemia generally carry a grim prognosis. However, non-neoplastic skin diseases may be associated with recruitment of normal and neoplastic leukocytes circulating in the peripheral blood. In those instances, neoplastic cells may be detected in skin lesions without an adverse effect on prognosis. METHODS: In a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, a specific infiltrate developed at the site of a florid herpes simplex infection. Clinically, the lesion presented itself as an ulcerated tumor. RESULTS: Histopathologically, the lesion was characterized by a dense, diffuse infiltrate of small hyperchromatic lymphocytes throughout the entire dermis. Lymphocytes showed an aberrant CD20(+)/CD43(+)/CD5(+) phenotype of neoplastic B cells, and monoclonal rearrangement of immunoglobulin gamma genes could be demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction. Although criteria for leukemia cutis were fulfilled, the patient did well. CONCLUSIONS: The cutaneous infiltrate of neoplastic cells seemed to be part of a  physiologic response to the antigenic stimulus, rather than indicating an exacerbation of leukemia. Ziemer M, Bornkessel A, Hahnfeld S, Weyers W. 'Specific' cutaneous infiltrate of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia at the site of a florid herpes simplex infection."
2320	"OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the association between exposure to several chemicals and mortality from lymphohematopoietic cancer (LHC) among 16,579 synthetic rubber industry workers who were followed up from 1943 to 1998. METHODS: Poisson regression analyses examined LHC rates in relation to butadiene, styrene, and DMDTC exposure. Models provided maximum likelihood estimates of the  relative rate for the contrast between categories of one agent, adjusting for other agents and for additional potential confounders. RESULTS: Cumulative exposure to 1,3-butadiene was associated positively with all  leukemia (relative rates of 1.0, 1.4, 1.2, 2.9, and 3.7, respectively, for exposures of 0, >0 to <33.7, 33.7 to <184.7, 184.7 to <425.0, and 425.0+ ppm-years), chronic myelogenous leukemia and to a lesser extent with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Adjusting for styrene and DMDTC attenuated these associations. After controlling for butadiene, neither styrene nor DMDTC displayed a consistent exposure-response trend with all leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. CONCLUSIONS: This study found a positive association between butadiene and leukemia that was not explained by exposure to other agents examined."
2321	"The immunological profile of lymphoproliferative disorders is usually conserved whatever the involved site, thus allowing a reliable diagnosis from peripheral blood analysis, especially in small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL/CLL). Here we present a case wherein the cytology and immunophenotype of blood specimen and bone marrow argue in favor of SLL/CLL with  a typical Matutes score (5/5), whereas the cyto-histology and immunophenotype of  spleen specimen led to the diagnosis of splenic marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (SMZL). Moreover genomic analysis showed that the splenic cells displayed a SMZL  signature. Whereas these data suggested the presence of 2 B-cell clones, the study of the mutational status of IgVH gene in blood and spleen demonstrated the  presence of a single clone, which likely developed simultaneously along two distinct ways of differentiation according to the anatomic site suggesting here the predominant role of a micro-environmental factor in cell differentiation. Although rare, this kind of event must be kept in mind as a cause of discrepancies between diagnoses from different sites."
2322	"Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily, involving membrane receptors and ligands are important for the growth and survival of leukemic B cells. In the present study levels of TNF-alpha, sTNFRp55, sTNFRp75 and sCD40 and sCD40L in the serum of patients with B-CLL before and after treatment were measured. In sera of patients before treatment increased concentrations of sCD40 and decreased concentrations of sCD40L were shown. Increased concentrations of TNF-alpha and sTNFRp75 and lack of changes in sTNFRp55 concentrations were also found. Results  obtained suggest that the relationships between examined soluble form of TNF family proteins may influence the development of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The used therapy with 2CdA and CMC led to a favorable effect for host through changes in the relations between sCD40 and sCD40L. It was also found that sCD40 and sCD40L serum concentrations, which are dependent on the clinical stage  and used therapy, are more sensitive tumor markers than TNF-alpha and its soluble receptor in patients with B-CLL treated with 2CdA and CMC."
2323	"Although the majority of circulating leukemic cells in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are in G0/early G1, recent studies have shown that these cells have undergone multiple cell divisions. In this study, we have determined whether there are abnormalities in cell cycle control in CLL by examining the three cyclin D isoforms in 43 patients and correlating the findings with clinical features. Cyclin D mRNA was measured by a sensitive RNase protection assay and the order of expression in CLL cells was D3 > D2 > D1. The mean cyclin D1 and D3  mRNA levels were 4 to 6-fold higher in CLL cells than in normal peripheral blood  B cells. In contrast, the levels of cyclin D2 mRNA were similar in CLL and normal B cells. Expression of the cyclin D isoforms was two- to four-fold greater in normal T cells than B cells, and the order of expression for both cell types was  D2 > D3 > D1. The relative overexpressions of cyclins D1 and D3 in CLL were unrelated to gene amplification, as assessed by Southern blotting, but structural changes in the genes were seen in four patients. Both cyclin D1 and D3 mRNA levels correlated positively with lymphocyte doubling time (LDT) and inversely with Rai stage and duration of disease. In addition, a significant correlation was observed between cyclin D mRNA levels and survival, with patients having high levels of cyclin D1, and to a lesser extent cyclin D3, mRNA having the best survival. Thus, cyclin D1 and D3 are relatively overexpressed in CLL cells and patients with higher levels have low stage disease, long LDT and prolonged survival. Further studies should evaluate the predictive value of cyclin D measurements in comparison to other prognostic markers in CLL."
2325	"Recently, immunotherapies with allogeneic dendritic cells (DCs) pulsed with tumor antigens to generate specific T-cell responses have been tested in clinical trials for patients with solid tumors. This is the first report on a clinical vaccination study with DCs for patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia  (B-CLL). The potential of allogeneic DCs pulsed ex vivo with tumor cell lysates or apoptotic bodies to stimulate antitumor immunity in patients with B-CLL in early stages was evaluated. Monocyte-derived DCs were obtained from unrelated healthy donors. Nine patients (clinical stage 0 and 1 according to Rai) were vaccinated five times with a mean number of 32 x 10(6) stimulated DCs administered intradermally once every 2-3 weeks. No signs of autoimmunity were detected, and only mild local skin reactions were noted. During the treatment period, we observed a decrease of peripheral blood leukocytes and CD19+/CD5+ leukemic cells. In one patient, a significant increase of specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes against RHAMM/CD168, a recently characterized leukemia-associated antigen, could be detected after DC vaccination. Taken together, the study demonstrated that DC vaccination in CLL patients is feasible and safe. Immunological and to some extent hematological responses could be noted, justifying further investigation on this immuno-therapeutical approach."
2326	"B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is an indolent lymphoid malignancy with variable prognosis. Adverse prognostic factors comprise treatment resistance, cytogenetics (11q- and 17p-), the presence of unmutated Ig genes, and the more comprehensive activation marker Zap 70. In contrast to diminished sensitivity to  chemotherapy, Zap 70+ B-CLL cells retain their responsiveness to manipulation of  signal transduction and monoclonals. Xanthohumol (XA) has recently been documented to have an impact on breast cancer cell growth and invasiveness in vitro. Based on these observations, lymphocytes from patients with B-CLL were cultured in the presence of XA in vitro. XA induced a dose-dependent killing of B-CLL cells at an LD(50) ((24 h)) of 24.4 +/- 6.6 microM, independent of known adverse prognostic factors including functional loss of p53. Cell death was associated with poly (ADP)-ribose polymerase cleavage and annexin V positivity, suggestive of an apoptotic mechanism. Surprisingly, p 70(S 6 K) phosphorylation was stimulated upon XA treatment. In conclusion, XA has an antitumor activity on  B-CLL cells in vitro. The molecular mechanisms behind this pro-apoptotic effect deserve further investigation."
2328	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia are at heightened risk for the development of cutaneous malignancies, especially squamous cell carcinoma. These  tumors portend a worse prognosis than is typically seen in immunocompetent patients. Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who develop squamous cell carcinoma are more likely to develop multiple tumors, recurrences after treatment, and regional or distant spread of their tumor. Evaluation of the literature substantiates the ominous nature of squamous cell carcinoma in patients with underlying lymphocytic malignancies."
2331	"PURPOSE: To determine the role of myeloablative conditioning and unrelated donor  (URD) bone marrow transplantation in the treatment of patients with advanced B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 38 CLL patients received a matched URD transplant using bone marrow procured by the National Marrow Donor Program. The median age was 45 years (range, 26 to 57 years), the median time from diagnosis was 51 months, and the median number of prior chemotherapy regimens was three. Fifty-five percent of patients were chemotherapy refractory and 89% had received  fludarabine. Conditioning included total-body irradiation in 92% of patients. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis consisted of methotrexate with cyclosporine or tacrolimus for 82% of patients. RESULTS: Twenty-one patients (58%) achieved complete response and six (17%) achieved partial response. Incidences of grades 2 to 4 acute GVHD were 45% at 100 days and incidences of chronic GVHD were 85% at 5 years. Eleven patients are alive and disease free at a median of 6 years (range, 3.0 to 9.0 years). Five-year overall survival, failure-free survival, disease progression rates, and treatment-related mortality (TRM) were 33%, 30%, 32%, and 38% respectively. CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that lasting remissions can be achieved after  URD transplantation in patients with advanced CLL. High TRM suggest that myeloablative conditioning and HLA-mismatched donors should be avoided in future  protocols, and it is mandatory to investigate transplant strategies with a lower  morbidity and mortality, including the use of nonmyeloablative regimens."
2332	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a monoclonal disorder, characterized by a progressive proliferation of functionally incompetent B lymphocytes. There is increased evidence of association between CLL and skin cancers, including the uncommon Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC). CASE PRESENTATION: A case report of an 84-year old male, who presented with an aggressively recurrent form of MCC on the lower lip, on the background of an 8-year history of untreated CLL. During the recurrences of MCC, coexisting regional lymphadenopathy, posed a problem in the differential diagnosis and treatment of lymph node involvement. Histopathology and immunoistochemistry showed that submandibular lymphadenopathy coexisting with the second recurrence of MCC, was due to B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma. The subsequent and more aggressive recurrence of the skin tumor had involved the superficial and deep cervical lymph nodes. Surgical excision followed by involved field radiation therapy has been proven effective for both malignancies. CONCLUSION: MCC has a high incidence of regional lymphadenopathy at presentation  (12-45%) and even when it arises on the background of chronic leukemia, lymphadenopathy at presentation should be managed agressively with elective lymph node dissection. We overview the postulated correlation between Merkel tumor and  CCL, the differential diagnosis of regional lymphadenopathy during the recurrences of the skin tumor and the strategies of treatment."
2333	"BACKGROUND: A common sequence polymorphism at codon 72 of the p53 gene encoding either arginine or proline was recently shown to be functionally relevant for apoptosis induction in vitro. In B-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), p53 gene mutations occur in a subset of patients and are associated with impaired survival and drug resistance. Here, we address the functional relevance of the codon 72 single nucleotide (SNP) polymorphism for cell death sensitivity following exposure to clinically employed cytotoxic drugs and gamma-irradiation. METHODS: 138 B-CLL samples were analysed by SSCP-PCR and sequencing for single nucleotide polymorphism at codon 72 of the p53 gene. The in vitro cytotoxicity assay (DiSC-assay) was performed with 7 drugs (chlorambucil, mafosfamide, fludarabine phosphate, methylprednisolone, doxorubicin, vincristine) or gamma-irradiation. RESULTS: Of the 138 B-CLL samples, 9 samples were homozygous for proline (Pro/Pro), 78 samples homozygous for arginine (Arg/Arg), and 49 samples heterozygous (Arg/Pro). No differences were found for patient survival and cell death triggered by 7 cytotoxic drugs or gamma-irradiation. CONCLUSION: These data indicate that polymorphic variants of p53 codon 72 are not clinically relevant for apoptosis induction or patient survival in B-CLL."
2334	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a highly heterogeneous disease in which interaction of the malignant cells with antigen is thought to play a key role. Individual CLL-cell clones markedly differ in their ability to respond to B-cell  receptor ligation, but the mechanism underlying the frequent hyporesponsiveness is incompletely understood. Our aim was to further clarify the extent and cause of the B-cell receptor signaling abnormality in CLL and to assign pathophysiologic relevance to the presence or absence of B-cell receptor responsiveness. We show that extracellular signal-regulated kinase-2 phosphorylation, intracellular Ca2+ increases, CD79a phosphorylation, and translocation of the B-cell receptor to lipid rafts in response to ligation with  anti-immunoglobulin M (as a surrogate for antigen) are features of CLL cells with relatively unmutated VH genes (<5% deviation from germ line) and a poor prognosis. B-cell receptor stimulation in these cases also promoted cell survival. In clones with mutated VH genes (>5% deviation from germ line), surface immunoglobulin M ligation failed to induce receptor translocation to rafts or to  prolong cell survival. This failure of receptor translocation observed in mutated CLL cells was associated with the constitutive exclusion of the B-cell receptor from rafts by a mechanism involving src-dependent interactions between the B-cell receptor and the actin cytoskeleton. We conclude that exposure to antigen promotes the survival of unmutated CLL clones, contributing to the poor prognosis of this group. In contrast, hyporesponsive mutated CLL clones may have developed  into a stage where continuous exposure to antigen results in relative tolerance to antigenic stimulation mediated by the exclusion of the B-cell receptor from lipid rafts."
2336	"The Wnt family of secreted glycoproteins is widely involved in cell proliferation, differentiation and oncogenesis. Many Wnt signaling genes are upregulated and activated in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Less is known concerning acute leukemia. One subtype of acute lymphoblastoid leukemia (ALL) is  characterized by a t(1;19) chromosomal translocation resulting in a fusion protein E2A-Pbx1 that promotes transformation and leukemogenesis. Wnt16 has been  shown to be targeted by E2A-Pbx1. We performed a differential gene expression array in acute leukemia cell lines displaying or not displaying the t(1;19) translocation. We found that Wnt16 and many Wnt signaling-related genes were upregulated in the translocation-containing cells. As two isoforms of Wnt16, Wnt16a and Wnt16b, have been recently identified, we demonstrated by using RT-PCR and Western blot that Wnt16b (and not Wnt16a) is overexpressed in t(1;19)-containing cell lines. We then directly addressed the role played by both isoforms in this type of leukemia. Using specific short interfering RNA (siRNA) and an anti-Wnt16 antibody, we showed that targeted-Wnt16b inhibition leads to apoptotic cell death. We also demonstrated that Wnt16b mediates its effect through the canonical Wnt pathway involving dishevelled-2, beta-catenin and survivin. We thus propose that Wnt16 plays an important role in leukemogenesis, raising its therapeutic interest."
2337	"We hypothesized that using a free light chain (FLC) assay as an adjunct to capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) could improve detection of lymphoplasmacytic processes. We prospectively studied 1,003 consecutive serum samples submitted for routine protein electrophoresis and/or immunofixation electrophoresis by CZE and  FLC. Samples from patients previously characterized as having M proteins were excluded. Protein electrophoresis was read by a pathologist unaware of the FLC results. Sixteen cases revealed an abnormal free kappa/lambda ratio in which CZE  did not demonstrate an M protein. Nine cases of B-lymphocyte or plasma cell proliferative processes were detected by an abnormal free kappa/lambda ratio in which CZE did not demonstrate an M protein. Cases with low free kappa/lambda ratios included 1 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 1 IgM lambda with aplastic  anemia, and 1 lambda light chain myeloma. Cases with high free kappa/lambda ratios included 2 CLL, 1 lymphocytosis (possibly early CLL), 1 kappa light chain  myeloma, 1 atypical lymphoma with neuropathy, and 1 nonsecretory myeloma. Addition of the free kappa/lambda ratio to CZE increases the yield of lymphocyte  and plasma cell proliferative processes detected by 56%."
2338	"A cutaneous eruption simulating insect bites has been repeatedly described in association with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). It was only rarely described with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Our study was performed to elucidate the clinical, histologic, immunopathological, and molecular characteristics of insect bite like reaction (IBLR) associated with MCL. The clinical presentation and histologic findings in 3 IBLR cases associated with MCL were found to be similar  to 3 IBLR cases associated with CLL. The eruptions consisted of itchy erythematous papules, nodules, plaques, and vesicles. Non-vesicular lesions were  characterized histologically by normal or mildly spongiotic epidermis. Vesicular  lesions were characterized by marked spongiosis and intraepidermal spongiotic vesicles containing eosinophils, or marked subepidermal edema occasionally leading to a dermoepidermal separation. Most of the lesions were characterized by superficial and mid dermal to deep perivascular and interstitial, and occasionally periadnexal, inflammatory-cell infiltrate consisting of mononuclear  cells and eosinophils. The densities of the infiltrates varied and the inflammatory-cell infiltrate extended often into the fat lobules. Neutrophils and nuclear dust were found more frequently and abundantly in the IBLR lesions associated with MCL. Immunophenotyping, direct immunofluorescence (DIF) tests, and IgH gene rearrangement studies were performed in the lesions associated with  MCL only. The majority of the infiltrating lymphocytes were CD3+, CD5+ and CD43+, more CD4+ than CD8+, and only a small minority was CD20+. The cells did not stain for bcl-1 protein and CD30, and with no evidence of clonality. The DIF test result was negative. The IBLR eruption associated with MCL resembles clinically and histologically IBLR associated with CLL. The eruption seems to be reactive rather than neoplastic, because there is no evidence of MCL involvement in the skin lesions."
2340	"We examined expression of B cell-activating factor of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family (BAFF) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells and nurselike cells (NLCs), which differentiate from CD14+ cells when cultured with CLL B cells. NLCs expressed significantly higher levels of APRIL than monocytes and significantly higher levels of BAFF and APRIL than CLL B cells. Also, the viability of CLL B cells cultured with NLCs was significantly reduced when CLL B cells were cultured with  decoy receptor of B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA), which can bind both BAFF and  APRIL, but not with BAFF receptor:Fc (BAFF-R:Fc), which binds only to BAFF. The effect(s) of BAFF or APRIL on leukemia cell survival appeared additive and distinct from that of stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha), which in contrast to BAFF or APRIL induced leukemia cell phosphorylation of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 [ERK1/2]) and AKT. Conversely, BAFF and APRIL, but not SDF-1alpha, induced CLL-cell activation of the nuclear factor-kappaB1 (NF-kappaB1) and enhanced CLL-cell expression of the antiapoptotic protein Mcl-1. However, BAFF, but not APRIL, also induced CLL-cell activation of NF-kappaB2. We conclude that BAFF and  APRIL from NLCs can function in a paracrine manner to support leukemia cell survival via mechanisms that are distinct from those of SDF-1alpha, indicating that NLCs use multiple distinct pathways to support CLL-cell survival."
2341	"We describe the cytogenetic, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and molecular findings in a patient who developed a typical chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) 20 months after the diagnosis of a Philadelphia (Ph)-positive chronic myeloid leukemia. Unstimulated bone marrow culture showed a 46,XX,t(9;22)(q34;q11) karyotype, and interphase FISH detected the presence of a  BCR/ABL fusion signal in 13% of cells. On stimulated bone marrow culture, a normal karyotype and a 13q14 deletion by interphase FISH with D13S319 probe in 14% of the cells were found. Molecular studies detected the chimeric BCR/ABL messengers by nested reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The B-cellular clone was documented by the presence of a clonal heavy chain immunoglobulin rearrangement. The coexistence of these two hematologic malignancies leads to questions about their cell(s) of origin. We provide evidence that CLL arose in a Ph-negative clone. The implications of these findings are discussed."
2342	"We determined the effectiveness and toxicity of combined chemotherapy consisting  of etoposide 100 mg/m(2)/day i.v. and cladribine (2-CdA) 0.12 mg/kg/day i.v. each for 5 days (EC regimen) in the treatment of refractory or relapsed low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The cycles were repeated every 28 days, reaching a maximum of six courses. Twenty patients entered the study. All patients had received three or more cycles of chemotherapy before the  EC regimen (median 8, range 3-19). Thirteen patients received 2-CdA before the EC regimen. Seven out of 20 patients (35%) responded, including one complete response. Median overall survival time of responding patients was 22 months (range 3-30). Myelosuppression and infections were the major toxicity of the EC regimen."
2343	"Over the past few decades, the management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has evolved considerably. This advancement is due in part to increasing awareness of prognostic factors and molecular heterogeneity of the disease which has helped to identify distinct risk groups of CLL. In addition, novel treatment regimens have demonstrated much higher complete and overall response rates than previously seen with conventional CLL therapy. Indeed, as complete response rates exceed 50%, curative therapy for CLL is within reach. Ongoing clinical research may define the optimal treatment strategies and improve outcomes for patients with CLL."
2344	"In this study, we have investigated a potential association between Type 2 diabetes mellitus and its treatment with the risk of lymphoma. Here, we report on 565 incident lymphoma (non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin), multiple myeloma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia cases and 601 hospital controls in a Spanish multicentric case-control study. Information on diabetes mellitus diagnosis and treatment was  obtained through personal interview together with information on other known or putative risk factors for lymphoma. The average age of the study population was 59 years. A medical diagnosis of diabetes was reported by 11% of the controls and 16.3% of cases. Patients with diabetes mellitus not treated with drugs were at an increased risk for lymphoma (OR=1.73, 95%CI=1.11, 2.68), and particularly for multiple myeloma (OR=2.80, 95%CI=1.40, 5.59). Patients treated with insulin had a non-significantly reduced risk for lymphoma (OR=0.70, 95%CI=0.29, 1.67). If replicated, this effect could be explained by a disappearance of hyperinsulinaemia in patients requiring insulin or to the continuous stimulation  of the immune system by insulin."
2345	"OBJECTIVE: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a heterogeneous disease with a  pronounced variation in the clinical course. With the purpose of identifying genes that could be related to disease progression, we have performed gene expression profiling on B-CLL patients with an indolent disease and patients with a progressive disease with need for therapy. MATERIALS AND METHODS: we applied the Affymetrix GeneChip technique to 11 B-CLL patients with stable and 10 patients with clinically progressive disease. Supervised and unsupervised clustering methods with different algorithms were used to identify genes that tend to give a distinction between stable and progressive disease. RESULTS: The supervised learning procedures identified groups of genes with a combined power to discriminate samples from progressive and stable disease with 70-90% accuracy. The gene for protein phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B' (B56) gamma isoform (PPP2R5C) and the gene for retinoblastoma-like 2 (p130) (RBL2) were included among the best discriminators; both genes were downregulated in progressive as compared to stable B-CLL. In a hierarchical clustering analysis based on gene expression pattern three clinical subcategories could be identified: one with a more severe clinical outcome, a second one with good prognosis, and a third one that was intermediate between the other two groups. CONCLUSIONS: Our application of microarray analysis on a clinically well defined  material has identified a number of genes with combined expression patterns related to stable or progressive disease in general. Unsupervised clustering suggested the existence of subclasses of samples in the progressive group that may be identifiable through gene expression patterns."
2350	"Hepatitis virus infection, especially type C (hepatitis C virus [HCV]), has been  suggested to be one of the important pathogenetic factors for low- and high-grade B-cell lymphoma, including splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL), in southern Europe. Here, we analyzed the incidences of HCV and hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections, and the clinicopathologic features in 29 cases of splenic diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), 10 SMZL, 3 splenic mantle cell lymphoma, 1 hairy cell leukemia, 13 B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and 12 hepatosplenic T-cell and natural killer cell lymphoma. Fifteen (51.7%) splenic DLBCL cases were HCV antibody-positive, and another 6 (20.7%) had the HBsAg. The incidence of each was significantly (P < .01) higher than those of HCV (9.3%) and HBV (1.9%) infections in 54 node-based DLBCL cases. Four examined HCV-positive DLBCL cases showed no type II cryoglobulinemia. HCV RNA was detected in fresh tumor tissues from 6 of 7 examined DLBCL cases, and HBV DNA was present in another 2, as evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistologically, tumor cells in 5 of 7  examined DLBCL cases showed intracytoplasmic reactions for HCV NS3 and E2 proteins and the viral receptor CD81. Of 6 cases, 2 showed an intranuclear reaction for the HBV surface protein. By Southern blot analysis, no rearrangement of the Bcl2 gene was detected in the tumor tissue of 7 HCV-positive DLBCL cases.  For the other types of malignant lymphoma, 1 case each of SMZL (10%) and hepatosplenic T-cell and natural killer cell lymphoma (8.3%) showed HCV infection. In conclusion, persistent human hepatitis virus infections, especially HCV, may play an important role in the tumorigenesis of splenic DLBCL in Japan."
2351	"Disseminated fungal infection is an important cause of morbidity and mortality among patients with hematological malignancies. Ochroconis gallopavum is a dematiaceous and thermotolerant fungus that causes opportunistic infections in immunocompromised hosts. About only 30 cases of this organism infection have been reported worldwide. We report a disseminated Ochroconis gallopavum infection in a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia patient. In spite of intensive anti-fungal treatment, no improvement in the clinical condition was observed and the patient  died 4 months after diagnosis of the infection. Ochroconis gallopavum infection is a potentially fatal disease in hematological malignancies."
2352	"A 51-year-old man who was hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-negative and positive for anti-hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) and anti-hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc), during rituximab therapy for chronic Lymphocytic leukemia, developed reactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection with hepatitis that proceeded towards hepatic failure and death in spite of lamivudine therapy. HBsAg remained persistently negative, notwithstanding a high HBV-DNA titer. Our observation, following other cases of fatal reactivation of HBV infection in patients receiving rituximab, suggests that, in all patients with previous markers of HBV infection, lamivudine prophylaxis should be considered during rituximab therapy."
2353	"Oligonucleotide microarrays are a powerful tool for profiling the expression levels of thousands of genes. Different statistical methods for identifying differentially expressed genes can yield different results. To our knowledge, no  experimental test has been performed to decide which method best identifies genes that are truly differentially expressed. We applied three statistical methods (dChip, t-test on log-transformed data, and Wilcoxon test) to identify differentially expressed genes in previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We used a training set of Affymetrix Hu133A microarray data from 11 patients with unmutated immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain variable region (VH) genes and 8 patients with mutated Ig VH genes. Differential  expression was validated using semiquantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assays and by validating models to predict the somatic mutation status of an independent test set of nine CLL samples. The methods identified 144 genes  that were differentially expressed between cases of CLL with unmutated compared with mutated Ig VH genes. Eighty genes were identified by Wilcoxon test, 60 by t-test, and 65 by dChip, but only 11 were identified by all three methods. Greater agreement was found between the t-test and the Wilcoxon test. Differential expression was validated by semiquantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assays for 83% of individual genes, regardless of the statistical  method. However, the Wilcoxon test gave the most accurate predictions on new samples, and dChip, the least accurate. We found that all three methods were equally good for finding differentially expressed genes, but they found different genes. The genes selected by the nonparametric Wilcoxon test are the most robust  for predicting the status of new cases. A comprehensive list of all differentially expressed genes can only be obtained by combining the results of multiple statistical tests."
2354	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is commonly treated with the alkylating agent  chlorambucil. Allergic reactions to this chemotherapy are rare. Previous reports  include urticaria, angioedema, rashes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug fever and one case of immune hemolytic anemia. We report 2 cases that had the identical symptoms of acute onset of high fever and progressive lymphadenopathy. These symptoms disappeared with conservative management. Neither of the patients were treated for infection or disease progression. When the patients were rechallenged with chlorambucil, identical reactions recurred. There was no cross-reactivity with the alkylating agent cyclophosphamide or other types of chemotherapy. This type of reaction to chlorambucil has not been described previously. It is important to recognize this as an allergic reaction. These reactions could be confused with the onset of infection, progression of disease or even a Richter's  transformation."
2355	"Clonally related composite lymphomas of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) and Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) represent models to study the multistep transformation process in  tumorigenesis and the development of two distinct tumors from a shared precursor. We analyzed six such lymphomas for transforming events. The HLs were combined in  two cases with follicular lymphoma (FL), and in one case each with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, splenic marginal zone lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma (MCL)  and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). In the HL/FL and HL/MCL combinations,  BCL2/IGH and CCND1/IGH translocations, respectively, were detected in both the HL and NHL. No mutations were found in the tumor suppressor genes FAS, NFKBIA and ATM. The HL/DLBCL case harbored clonal replacement mutations of the TP53 gene on  both alleles exclusively in the DLBCL. In conclusion, we present the first examples of molecularly verified IgH-associated translocations in HL, which also  show that BCL2/IGH or CCND1/IGH translocations can represent early steps in the pathogenesis of composite HL/FL or HL/MCL. The restriction of the TP53 mutations  to the DLBCL in the HL/DLBCL case exemplifies a late transforming event that presumably happened in the germinal center and affected the fate of a common lymphoma precursor cell towards development of a DLBCL."
2359	"Tetraspanin proteins form signaling complexes between them and with other membrane proteins and modulate cell adhesion and migration properties. The surface expression of several tetraspanin antigens (CD9, CD37, CD53, CD63, and CD81), and their interacting proteins (CD19, CD21, and HLA-DR) were analyzed during normal B-cell maturation and compared to a group of 67 B-cell neoplasias.  Three patterns of tetraspanin expression were identified in normal B cells. The first corresponded to bone marrow CD10(+) B-cell precursors (BCP) which showed high expression of CD81 and CD9, low reactivity for CD53 and negativity for CD37. CD10(-) B-lymphocytes showed downregulation of CD9/CD81 and upregulation of CD53/CD37. Plasma cells showed re-expressed CD9 and downregulated CD37. Hierarchical clustering analysis of flow cytometry immunophenotypic data showed a good correlation between the tumor differentiation stage and the pattern of tetraspanin expression, with all analyzed individual samples classified into three major groups, independently of their normal or neoplastic origin. Despite this, neoplastic B-cells frequently showed aberrantly high/low expression of the  different markers analyzed. Interestingly, in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, abnormal expression of CD53 and CD9 were associated with different patterns of disease infiltration, which would support the role of these molecules on modulating adhesion and migration of neoplastic B cells."
2360	"Understanding of the signal transduction pathways that lead to B cell development is of extreme interest to learn how alterations in these pathways might initiate  malignant transformation. Long-term cultured early pre-BI cells can differentiate into IgM+ B cells after transplant into NOD/SCID mice, offering the possibility to explore checkpoints in B cell development. Using DNA microarray and Western blot analysis of IgM+ B cells vs parental early pre-BI cells, we demonstrated that zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) is upregulated in our B cell differentiation model. Unlike parental ZAP-70- early pre-BI cells, ZAP-70+ IgM+ B cells exhibited a transformed phenotype, as indicated by BCL-6 expression, a high Ki-67 proliferation index, resistance to IL-7 deprivation-induced apoptosis, and  an increased repopulation rate in NOD/SCID mice. These data show the characterization and generation of a novel murine leukemia model with many similarities to human ZAP-70+ B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
2366	"The usage of the immunoglobulin (Ig) V(H)3-21 gene is associated with poor prognosis in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) despite V(H) gene mutation status. Many V(H)3-21+ patients also display restricted heavy- and light-chain Ig gene rearrangements, implying a role of antigen selection in disease development. To explore the specific phenotypic/genotypic features among  V(H)3-21+ B-CLLs, we compared gene expression patterns in 15 V(H)3-21+ and 24 non-V(H)3-21 patients (11 with unmutated and 13 with mutated V(H) genes) using Affymetrix microarray analysis (approximately 12,500 genes). A distinct expression profile was identified for V(H)3-21+ patients in contrast to the Ig-unmutated and -mutated groups. By applying different algorithms, the data enabled an efficient class discrimination of the V(H)3-21+ subset based on 27 or  57 genes. A set of genes was sorted out which, using different analytical methods, consistently gave a distinction between V(H)3-21+ and non-V(H)3-21 samples. Several of these genes are involved in regulation of DNA replication/cell-cycle control, transcription and protein kinase activity, which  may render the V(H)3-21+ cells with a higher proliferative drive. However, no clear evidence of increased B-cell receptor signaling was found in the V(H)3-21+  group. Altogether, our identification of a specific V(H)3-21 profile may provide  insights into the pathogenesis of the V(H)3-21+ subgroup."
2367	"Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) consists of a heterogeneous group of tumors. Population-based data on the familial risk for specific histopathologic subtypes  have not been established. Such data are useful for clinical counseling and for searching tumor subtypes sharing common genetic pathways. We used the Swedish Family-Cancer Database to calculate standardized incidence ratios (SIRs) for histopathology-specific subtypes of NHL in 4455 offspring with NHL whose parents  or siblings were affected with different types of lymphoproliferative malignancies. A familial history of NHL significantly increased the risk for NHL  (SIRparent = 1.8; SIRsibling = 1.9) and for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (SIRparent = 2.3), follicular lymphoma (SIRsibling = 2.3), and B-cell lymphoma not otherwise specified (NOS) (SIRsibling = 3.4). For a parental history of histopathology-specific concordant cancer, the risks were significantly increased for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (SIR = 11.8), follicular NHL (SIR = 6.1), plasma cell myeloma (SIR = 2.5), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SIR = 5.9). Familial clusters for NHL seemed stronger in females and in siblings. Our study provides the first quantification of the familial risks for NHL by histopathology. The present findings give evidence for a strong familial association of NHL, with little differences in the magnitude of risks for various histopathologic subtypes. The patterns of risks in parents and siblings support the hypothesis of an autosomal-dominant component for diffuse large B-cell NHL and a recessive one for follicular NHL."
2368	"Although the zeta-associated protein of 70 kDa (ZAP-70) is overexpressed in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) displaying unmutated IGVH genes  and poor prognosis, a previous microarray study from our group identified overexpression of LPL and ADAM29 genes among unmutated and mutated CLL, respectively. To assess the prognostic value of these genes, we quantified their  expression by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in a cohort  of 127 patients with CLL and correlated this with clinical outcome, IGVH mutational status, and ZAP-70 protein expression. IGVH mutational status, ZAP-70, and the LPL and ADAM29 mRNA ratios (L/A ratio) were predictive of event-free survival for the whole cohort and for patients with stage A disease. In patients  in stage B and C, the L/A ratio was an independent prognostic factor, whereas ZAP-70 did not predict survival. Simultaneous usage of the L/A ratio and ZAP-70 expression allowed an almost perfect (99%) assessment of the IGVH status in the 80% of patients with concordant results (L/A+, ZAP-70+ or L/A-, ZAP-70-). LPL and ADAM29 gene expression could also be determined by a simple competitive multiplex reverse transcription PCR assay. Overall, quantification of LPL and ADAM29 gene expression is a strong prognostic indicator in CLL, providing better prognostic assessment than ZAP-70 in advanced stages of the disease."
2369	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) remains an incurable disease that requires innovative new approaches to improve therapeutic outcome. Honokiol is a  natural product known to possess potent antineoplastic and antiangiogenic properties. We examined whether honokiol can overcome apoptotic resistance in primary tumor cells derived from B-CLL patients. Honokiol induced caspase-dependent cell death in all of the B-CLL cells examined and was more toxic toward B-CLL cells than to normal mononuclear cells, suggesting greater susceptibility of the malignant cells. Honokiol-induced apoptosis was characterized by the activation of caspase-3, -8, and -9 and cleavage of poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Exposure of B-CLL cells to  honokiol resulted in up-regulation of Bcl2-associated protein (Bax) and down-regulation of the expression of the key survival protein myeloid-cell leukemia sequence 1 (Mcl-1), which is associated with response to treatment in B-CLL patients. In addition, B-CLL cells pretreated with interleukin-4 (IL-4), a  cytokine known to support B-CLL survival, underwent apoptosis when subsequently incubated with honokiol, indicating that honokiol could also overcome the prosurvival effects of IL-4. Furthermore, honokiol enhanced cytotoxicity induced  by fludarabine, cladribine, or chlorambucil. These data indicate that honokiol is a potent inducer of apoptosis in B-CLL cells and should be examined for further clinical application either as a single agent or in combination with other anticancer agents."
2370	"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) occurs in 2-3% of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients, whereas autoimmune thrombocytopenia is very rare before  the diagnosis of lymphoma. A 67-year-old patient, was admitted to our Department  because of purpura on his inferior limbs. Family history revealed arterial hypertension, a previous presence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) antibodies, with no  sign of liver damage. Physical examination showed purpura of inferior limbs. Laboratory analysis revealed: marked thrombocytopenia (platelet count 5000/microL); hypogammaglobulinemia (9%, immunoglobulin-IgG 634 mg/dL); presence  of HCV antibody (negative HCV-RNA); low-titer anti-nuclear antibody and anti-smooth muscle antibody (1:80); positive cryoglobulin (polycolonal, IgG-IgM,  cryocrit 0.5%). Abdomen ultrasound revealed a mild liver steatosis and bone marrow aspirate megakaryocytic hyperplasia. Platelet kinetics study showed a markedly reduced platelet half-life (<1 day) with evident splenic uptake. The patient was treated with steroids, intravenous Ig and immunosuppressive agent (cyclophosphamide) with only temporary effect; a splenectomy was therefore performed with a subsequent durable increase in the platelet count. Two years later, the patient underwent a prostatectomy for prostate cancer and within the pelvic nodal screening the histological examination unexpectedly revealed features of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, type CCL/small lymphocytic lymphoma; a bone marrow aspirate showed a monotypic CD5+, CD19+, CD23+ B-cell proliferation confirming the diagnosis of CLL. Six months later, a computed tomography scan revealed multiple pathological node enlargements (1.5-3 cm), compatible with a malignant lymphoma. The marked thrombocytopenia may have been an early expression of the lymphoproliferative disease. Otherwise, the association between CLL and ITP might reflect the underlying role of HCV infection causing an immune dysregulation responsible for both pathologies."
2371	"Bcl-2 is an apoptosis regulating protein, overexpression of which is associated with chemotherapy resistant disease, aggressive clinical course, and poor survival in patients with B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Overexpression of Bcl-2 protein results in an aberrant intrinsic apoptotic pathway that confers a protective effect on malignant cells against a death signal (e.g., chemotherapy or radiotherapy). Downregulation of this oncoprotein, thus, represents a possible new way to target clinically aggressive disease. Preclinical studies have shown that this oncoprotein can be effectively decreased by Bcl-2 antisense in malignant lymphoid cells and can reverse chemotherapy resistance, as well as enhance the anti-apoptotic potential of both chemotherapeutic and biologic agents. Ongoing clinical trials are exploring the role of Bcl-2 downregulation with oblimersen (Bcl-2 antisense) in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma. Early results from these studies are promising and support the proof of the principle. As these studies are completed and mature data emerges, the role of Bcl-2 antisense therapy in the treatment of B-cell malignancies will become clearer."
2372	"BACKGROUND: Epidemiologic evidence of an association between tobacco smoking and  non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has been conflicting. This may reflect that non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma comprises several distinct disease entities with different etiologies, as some studies have indicated an association between smoking and follicular lymphoma. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between cigarette smoking and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma risk, overall and by subtype. METHODS: As part of a nationwide Danish-Swedish population-based case-control study, we interviewed 3,055 incident non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients and 3,187 population controls. All lymphomas were uniformly classified according to the WHO classification. We used unconditional logistic regression to estimate adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) for the association between cigarette smoking and risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. RESULTS: Cigarette smoking was not associated with the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma overall (OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.87-1.08) nor with the major subgroups such  as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (OR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.79-1.10), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (OR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.72-1.02), or follicular lymphoma (OR, 1.03; 95% CI, 0.85-1.24). Female smokers were at a marginally increased risk of follicular lymphoma (OR, 1.41; 95% CI, 1.04-1.92). Men who had ever smoked had a  significantly increased risk of T-cell lymphoma (OR, 1.67; 95% CI, 1.11-2.51). No dose-response association with cigarette smoking could be established for any lymphoma subgroup. CONCLUSION: We found little evidence of an association between cigarette smoking  and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma risk overall. Although increased risks of follicular lymphoma in female smokers and of T-cell lymphoma in male smokers were suggested, no dose-response relationship was observed, leaving limited support for causality."
2373	"B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is the most common adult leukemia. Molecular genetic characterization of B-CLL has made significant progress and typical chromosomal anomalies have been assessed. The most frequent chromosomal abnormalities are deletions at 13q14, 17p13, and 11q22 approximately q23 and trisomy 12. The aim of this study was to establish incidence of chromosomal changes in bone marrow or peripheral blood cells (or both) of B-CLL patients using a molecular cytogenetic method, interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (I-FISH), and to evaluate the prognostic implications. We performed I-FISH on bone marrow and blood smears from 217 B-CLL patients (124 male, 93 female). Trisomy 12 was found in 35 of the 217 (16%); deletion 13q14 was analyzed in 207 patients and found in 112 (54%). Deletion 17p13 was found in 34 (16%) out  of 206 examined. Deletion of 11q23 was analyzed in 56 patients and was present in 7 (12%). Statistical analyses were performed to correlate the molecular-cytogenetic findings with disease status (stable versus progressive), Rai stage, CD38/CD19 antigen coexpression, immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgV(H)) mutational pattern, and other clinical and laboratory parameters. No apparent differences in distribution were noted for anomalies +12, del(13)(q14),  or del(17)(p13) among patients with stable and progressive disease, and no consistent pattern in the distribution of type of genomic changes were found among various Rai stages and in CD38/CD19-positive or -negative patients. Patients without IgV(H) mutation had a worse prognosis; however, distribution of  chromosomal abnormalities identified with FISH was the same for patients with and without IgV(H) mutations."
2374	"Based on their activity in patients with advanced stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a phase I/II study was designed to evaluate the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of autologous vaccines made from oxidized tumor cells in patients with earlier stage CLL, and to determine an optimal schedule of injections. Eighteen patients (at risk for disease progression and with white blood cell counts between 15 and 100 x 10(6) cells/ml) were injected intramuscularly with 10 ml of oxidized autologous blood (composed mainly of CLL cells) either 12 times over 6 weeks (group 1), 12 times over 16 days (group 2), or 4 times over 6 weeks (group 3). Fourteen out of eighteen patients had Rai stage 0-II disease, while 4/18 had stage III-IV disease but did not require conventional treatment. Partial clinical responses, associated with enhanced anti-tumor T cell activity in vitro, were observed in 5/18 patients of whom three were in group 2. Stable disease was observed in six patients while disease progression appeared not to be affected in the remaining patients. Toxicity was minimal. Vaccination with oxidized autologous tumor cells appears worthy of further investigation and may be a potential alternative to a "watch and wait" strategy for selected CLL patients."
2377	"Redox mechanisms have been shown to be important in malignant cell survival and are a system that may be modified for the treatment of hematologic malignancies.  Motexafin gadolinium (MGd) is a synthetic expanded porphyrin that selectively accumulates in tumor cells and oxidizes various intracellular metabolites, including ascorbate, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, glutathione, and protein thiols, to generate reactive oxygen species in a process known as futile redox cycling. The rationale for its use in hematologic malignancies is that, like naturally occurring porphyrins, it tends to concentrate selectively in cancer cells, and it has a novel mechanism of action of inducing redox stress and triggering apoptosis in a broad range of malignancies. MGd induces apoptosis in B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and highly resistant myeloma cell lines. Furthermore, MGd is additive or synergistic with ionizing radiation, several chemotherapy agents, and rituximab in vitro and in vivo tumor  models. Through gene expression profiling, various stress-related genes are upregulated in response to MGd, including genes encoding metallothioneins, heat shock proteins, and heme oxygenase. Preliminary results from clinical trials with MGd in hematopoietic malignancies have shown that it is well tolerated, with minimal hematologic side effects in both; it has single agent activity in very heavily pretreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia /small lymphocytic lymphoma patients, and it has induced prompt complete remissions in combination with 90Yttrium-ibritumomab (Y-90 Zevalin; Biogen Idec Inc., Cambridge, MA) for relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the first two cohorts of patients enrolled. Various clinical trials studying MGd as a single agent and in combination with radiation and/or chemotherapy for the treatment of hematologic malignancies are ongoing."
2378	"OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the immunoglobulin V(H) gene mutational status has an effect on the activation, proliferation and surface antigen expression of  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells when stimulated in vitro. METHODS: The proliferation and activation responses of CLL cells were studied in  22-immunoglobulin gene V(H) unmutated (UM-CLL) and 12 hypermutated (M-CLL) CLL cases in 4-day cultures. As the mitogen responses have been previously shown to be diverse in CLL, a case-specific strategy based on optimized mitogen combinations (OMCs) of interleukin-2 (IL-2), 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA), Staphylococcus aureus Cowan 1 (SAC), and human recombinant tumor necrosis  factor alpha (TNF) was applied in cell stimulation. The expression of 23 surface  membrane antigens (CD5, CD11c, CD19, CD20, CD21, CD22, CD23, CD25, CD27, CD38, CD40, CD45, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD79b, CD80, CD95, CD124, CD126, CD130, FMC7, IgD, and IgM) was studied by flow cytometry at days 0 and 4. RESULTS: The proliferation and activation responses were similar in UM-CLL and M-CLL when OMCs contained IL-2, TPA or TNF. SAC induced faster proliferation in UM-CLL than in M-CLL. OMC stimulation induced preferential down-regulation of growth- promoting cell surface receptors CD5, CD21, and CD124 and preferential up-regulation of growth-inhibiting antigen CD80 in M-CLL. CONCLUSIONS: Difference in immunophenotypic evolution of UM-CLL and M-CLL can be  demonstrated if appropriate matrix signals are provided. The pathways for CD5, CD21, CD124 (IL4R), and CD80 (B7-1) regulation should be further explored in relation with somatic hypermutation and outcome of CLL."
2382	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of leukemia worldwide. It is an indolent disease, almost exclusively of B-cell origin. Some CLLs evolve  into a more aggressive lymphoid malignancy. The most common of these is Richter's syndrome. Transformation to acute lymphoblastic leukemia, plasma cell leukemia, multiple myeloma, or Hodgkin's disease (HD) may also occur. CLL patients are also at a significantly increased risk of developing a second malignant neoplasm later in life. One of the most common of these is HD. Herein, we report a case of HD in an elderly man with a history of B-cell CLL."
2383	"Micro RNAs (miRs) are small noncoding RNAs, functioning as antisense regulators of other RNAs. miR-15a and miR-16-1 genes are located at chromosome 13q14, a region which is frequently deleted in pituitary tumors. An inverse correlation has been shown in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) between miR-15a and miR-16-1 expression and the expression levels of arginyl-tRNA synthetase (RARS),  an enzyme which associates with the cofactor p43 in the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase complex. When secreted, p43 regulates local inflammatory response and macrophage  chemotaxis, and seems to have anti-neoplastic properties in mice. We explored miR-15a and miR-16-1 expression in 10 GH-secreting and in 10 PRL-secreting pituitary macroadenomas by Northern blot, and investigated the possible correlation with in vivo and in vitro characteristics. We found that miR-15a and  miR-16-1 are expressed at lower levels in pituitary adenomas as compared to normal pituitary tissue. Moreover, their expression inversely correlates with tumor diameter and with RARS expression (P < 0.05), but directly correlates with  p43 secretion (P < 0.02). Therefore, miR15 and miR16 down-regulation in pituitary adenomas correlates with a greater tumor diameter and a lower p43 secretion, suggesting that these genes may, at least in part, influence tumor growth."
2384	"With the aim of identifying the immunophenotypic profile of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) subsets with different prognosis, we investigated by flow cytometry the expression of 36 surface antigens in 123 cases, all with survivals. By analyzing results with unsupervised (hierarchical and K-means clustering) algorithms, three distinct immunophenotypic groups (I, II, and III) were identified, group I (51/123) with longer survivals, as compared to the group II (36/123) and III (36/123). The immunophenotypic signatures of these groups, as determined by applying the nearest Shrunken centroids method as class predictor,  were characterized by the coordinated and differential expression of 12 surface markers, that is, group I: above-average expression of CD62L, CD54, CD49c, and CD25, below-average expression of CD38; group II: above-average expression of CD38, CD49d, CD29, and CD49e; and group III: below-average expression of the above markers, overexpression of CD23, CD20, SmIg, and CD79b. As opposed to groups II-III, group I B-CLLs lacked expression of ZAP-70 and activation-induced  cytidine deaminase in the majority of cases, while more frequently had mutated IgV(H) genes and IgV(H) mutations consistent with antigen-driven selection. Our findings contribute to improve the immunophenotypical identification of disease subsets with different prognosis and suggest a set of surface antigens to be employed as prognosticators in routine diagnostic/prognostic procedures."
2385	"To examine the impact of tumors on the immune system, we compared global gene expression profiles of peripheral blood T cells from previously untreated patients with B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with those from age-matched healthy donors. Although the cells analyzed were not part of the malignant clone, analysis revealed differentially expressed genes, mainly involved in cell differentiation in CD4 cells and defects in cytoskeleton formation, vesicle trafficking, and cytotoxicity in CD8 cells of the CLL patients. In coculture experiments using CLL cells and T cells from healthy allogeneic donors, similar defects developed in both CD4 and CD8 cells. These changes were induced only with direct contact and were not cytokine mediated. Identification of the specific pathways perturbed in the T cells of cancer-bearing patients will allow us to assess steps to repair these defects, which will likely be required to enhance antitumor immunity."
2386	"The P2X(7)R is an ATP-gated cation channel expressed in hemopoietic cells that participates in both cell proliferation and apoptosis. Expression and function of the P2X(7)R have been associated with the clinical course of patients affected by chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Functional variants causing loss-of-function  of the P2X(7)R have been identified, namely, polymorphisms 1513A>C (E496A), 1729T>A (I568N), and 946G>A (R307Q). Here we investigated other nonsynonymous polymorphisms located either in the extracellular portion of the receptor, such as the 489C>T (H155Y) variant, or in the long cytoplasmic tail of the receptor, such as the 1068G>A (A348T), 1096C>G (T357S), and 1405A>G (Q460R) variants. P2X(7)R function was monitored by measuring ATP-induced Ca(2+) influx in PBL of patients affected by CLL and in recombinant human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells stably transfected with each single P2X(7) allelic variant. Ca(2+) influx was markedly reduced in association with the 1513C allele, whereas variants located in the same intracellular domain, such as the 1068A, 1096G, or 1405G variants, were associated with a minor functional decrease. Significant Ca(2+) flux increase was observed in lymphocytes from CLL patients bearing the 489C/T and 489T/T genotypes in association with the 1513A/A genotype. Functional analysis in recombinant HEK293 cells expressing P2X(7)R confirmed an increased ATP-dependent activation of the P2X(7) 489T mutant with respect to the wild type  receptor, as assessed by both by [Ca(2+)](i) influx and ethidium uptake experiments. These data identify the 489C>T as a gain-of-function polymorphism of the P2X(7)R."
2387	"Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is a potentially fatal complication of many lymphoid malignancies. Those most often associated with AIHA include chronic lymphocytic leukemia, B-cell lymphomas, and Burkitt-type acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and are clonal populations of mature B cells. There have been no reports of patients with B-cell precursor ALL who developed AIHA while undergoing chemotherapy, but AIHA has been reported in a few patients with ALL after hematopoietic stem cell transplant. The authors describe a child with B-cell precursor ALL who developed cold agglutinin AIHA during maintenance treatment while in remission after infection with influenza B."
2388	"Relative protein expression levels were compared in leukemic B cells from two patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) having either mutated (M-CLL) or unmutated (UM-CLL) immunoglobulin variable heavy chain genes (IgV(H)). Cells were separated into cytosol and membrane protein fractions then labeled with acid-cleavable ICAT reagents (cICAT). Labeled proteins were digested with trypsin then subjected to SCX and affinity chromatography followed by LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis on a linear ion trap mass spectrometer. A total of 9 proteins from the cytosol fraction and 4 from the membrane fraction showed a 3-fold or greater difference between M-CLL and UM-CLL and a subset of these were examined by Western blot where results concurred with cICAT abundance ratios. The abundance of one of the proteins in particular, the mitochondrial membrane protein cytochrome c oxidase subunit COX G was examined in 6 M-CLL and 6 UM-CLL patients  using western blot and results showed significantly greater levels (P < 0.001) in M-CLL patients vs UM-CLL patients. These results demonstrate that stable isotope  labeling and mass spectrometry can complement 2D gel electrophoresis and gene microarray technologies for identifying putative and perhaps unique prognostic markers in CLL."
2389	"We report a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who developed idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and myasthenia gravis (MG) after fludarabine therapy. ITP developed after 6 cycles of fludarabine treatment, and MG occurred 2 months after the onset of ITP. MG was successfully treated with immunosuppressive therapy and plasma exchange, while rituximab was effective for  CLL and ITP. Fludarabine seemed to have an important role in the onset of ITP and MG in this case."
2390	"We present four patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with fludarabine, who developed aggressive skin cancer after years of quiescence, a short time after institution of treatment. Their leukemias responded well to therapy with fludarabine with initial treatment as well as relapse. Three patients had recurrence with basal cell carcinomas with multiple, rapidly growing tumors and one had recurrence of both basal and squamous cancers and eventually died of metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. Fludarabine induces prolonged period  of lymphopenia, affecting especially the T cell population, which is crucial in the defense against skin cancers. There appears to be a direct association between fludarabine and the flare up of skin cancers in these patients, possibly  analogous to the increased incidence of these malignancies in patients on chronic cyclosporine immunosuppression."
2391	"Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) is constitutively produced by B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells and may act as an autocrine factor for their growth and survival. However, very few data are available on the possible cytotoxic effect of TNFalpha produced by B-CLL cells. This study investigated whether B-CLL cells exert in vitro cytotoxicity by TNFalpha and if so, whether this cytotoxicity can be modulated by cytokines. In 8 of 12 patients (66.6%), B-CLL cells in vitro constitutively produced TNFalpha and exerted a TNFalpha-mediated cytotoxicity, evaluated in an 18-h 51Cr release assay, against  the TNFalpha-sensitive Jurkat, U937 and K562 cell lines but not against the TNFalpha-resistant Raji cell line. Involvement of TNFalpha in B-CLL cell cytotoxicity is demonstrated by the fact that anti-TNFalpha antibodies strongly inhibited it and supernatants of cytotoxic cultures contained TNFalpha and mediated a completely TNFalpha-dependent cytotoxicity. When the cytotoxic B-CLL cells were stimulated with interleukin (IL)-2 plus IL-12, there was increased TNFalpha mRNA expression, TNFalpha production and TNFalpha-mediated cytotoxicity. All eight patients with cytotoxic leukemic cells had progressive disease and six  of these also expressed high levels of ZAP-70 protein. In the other four patients (33.3%), B-CLL cells did not produce TNFalpha in vitro and were not cytotoxic, either spontaneously or after IL-2 plus IL-12 stimulation. Of these four patients, three had stable disease and one had progressive disease. The patient with progressive disease and one of the three with stable disease expressed low levels of ZAP-70 protein. We conclude that a group of B-CLL patients with progressive disease have leukemic B cells able to exert in vitro a TNFalpha-mediated cytotoxicity, which is modulated by cytokines."
2392	"CD20 antigen expression in B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is at significantly lower levels than in non-Hodgkins lymphoma, which may affect the degree of anti-CD20 antibody binding. Low density of CD20 expression on malignant cells may explain the lower response rates to anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, observed in B-CLL. Upregulating the antigen receptor intensity on tumor cells may enhance the response rates. In this study, we examined the influence of granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) on the expression level of CD20 antigen and percent of cells expressing CD20 antigen on B-CLL lymphocytes, in vivo. CD20 antigen expression was studied by flow cytometry at baseline, 12 and 24 h after GM-CSF injection. However neither upregulation of CD20 antigen nor a change of the proportion of CD20 positive cells was observed after a dose of 5 microg/kg GM-CSF. Strategies other than GM-CSF priming needs to be evaluated in order to increase the efficacy of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies in B-CLL."
2394	"The pathogenic role of trisomy 12 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains unresolved, but recently an upregulated RNA expression level has been observed for chromosome 12 candidate genes. In the current study, the protein expression of chromosome 12 candidate genes was characterized by comparing CLL cases with (n=58) or without (n=16) trisomy 12, CD19+-B-cells and cell lines (JVM-2, EHEB, JURKAT). Immunoblotting was performed to quantify the levels of AID, APAF-1, ARF3, CCND2, CDK2, CKD4, GLI, MDM-2, p27, Smac/DIABLO and STAT6 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 6). The cell lines showed distinct expression patterns for CCND2, MDM-2, p27, Smac/DIABLO and STAT6, and displayed higher levels of CDK2 and CDK4 than the CLL cases. JURKAT and the CLL cases expressed uniformly high levels of p27, but low levels of CCND2. AID expression in the CLL cases was weak with slight variations regardless of the subgroup affiliation. The expression of the investigated proteins was independent of the trisomy 12 status as well as of the VH mutation status. The comparison of CD19+-B-cells with CLL revealed higher protein levels in CLL for CDK4, p27, Smac/DIABLO and STAT6. Further studies including protein expression experiments in genetic high-risk subgroups of CLL have to elucidate whether these proteins qualify as candidates for targeted CLL therapies."
2395	"We investigated the pattern of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) expression in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and assessed its prognostic relevance. Expression of LPL mRNA as well as protein was highly restricted to leukemic B cells. The intensity of intracellular immunoreactivity of LPL was higher in samples of patients with unmutated immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region genes (IGV(H)) compared to those with mutated IGV(H) genes. LPL mRNA levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC) from 104 CLL patients differed by 1.5  orders of magnitude between cases with mutated (N=51) or unmutated (N=53) IGV(H)  (median: 1.33 vs 45.22 compared to normal PBMNC). LPL expression correlated strongly with IGV(H) mutational status (R=0.614; P<0.0001). High LPL expression predicted unmutated IGV(H) status with an odds ratio of 25.90 (P<0.0001) and discriminated between mutated and unmutated cases in 87 of 104 patients (84%). LPL expression was higher in patients with poor risk cytogenetics. High LPL expression was associated with a shorter treatment-free survival (median 40 vs 96 months, P=0.001) and a trend for a shorter median overall survival (105 months vs not reached). Our data establish LPL as a prognostic marker and suggest functional consequences of LPL overexpression in patients with B-CLL."
2396	"Alemtuzumab (anti-CD52; Campath-1H) is effective in fludarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), but is associated with infection and early onset neutropenia. To reduce toxicity, filgrastim (G-CSF) was administered concurrently with alemtuzumab. In total, 14 CLL patients (median age 59) with a median of 3.5 prior regimens (range 1--12) received i.v. alemtuzumab, stepped up  from 3 to 30 mg the first week, then 30 mg thrice weekly for 12 weeks. Filgrastim 5 microg/kg was administered daily 5 days before and throughout alemtuzumab therapy. Six patients developed cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation 3--6 weeks into treatment; six patients developed fever, three neutropenia, and one pneumonia. The patient with CMV pneumonia died; ganciclovir cleared CMV in the other patients. Five patients developed early neutropenia (weeks 2--5). Four patients developed delayed neutropenia (weeks 10--13) unassociated with CMV reactivation. Nine patients ceased therapy because of infectious and hematologic  toxicity. Five partial responses were noted, all in patients with lymph nodes>cm, lasting a median of 6.5 months (range 5--13). Filgrastim and alemtuzumab were given concurrently with manageable infusion toxicity and clinical activity, but the efficacy of this regimen was limited by delayed neutropenia of unclear etiology and CMV reactivation. Filgrastrim should not be administered prophylactically during alemtuzumab therapy outside clinical trials."
2399	"5-Aza-2'-deoxycitidine (decitabine, Dacogen, Bloomington, MN) is a cytosine analogue that promotes hypomethylation of DNA and has documented efficacy in myeloid malignancies. Indeed, promising clinical results have been observed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and the myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Aberrant methylation has also been found in chronic leukemias, providing a rationale for investigating the use of decitabine in these diseases. There is clear evidence of molecular (hypomethylation) as well as hematologic and cytogenetic responses to decitabine in chronic myelogenous leukemia of all phases, including in patients resistant to imatinib mesylate. Clinical trials of decitabine in chronic lymphocytic leukemia are ongoing. There are many unanswered questions regarding optimizing this treatment for chronic leukemias, but successful proof-of-concept  studies for hypomethylating agents move us closer to approaches that may have a significant impact on patient outcomes."
2400	"BAFF-receptor (BAFF-R) is required for the successful maturation and survival of  B-cells. We developed an anti-human BAFF-R monoclonal antibody (mAb), 8 A 7. The  reactivity of 8 A 7 in normal and neoplastic tissue was examined by performing immunohistochemistry on paraffin-embedded sections. 8 A 7 reacted with lymphocytes in the mantle and marginal zones, but not with lymphocytes in the interfollicular area. Lymphocytes in the germinal centers were found to be negative or occasionally weakly positive for 8 A 7. BAFF-R expression was found only in B-cell lymphoma (44/80, positive cases/examined cases): B-lymphoblastic lymphoma 0/3, B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma 4/4, mantle cell lymphoma 9/11, follicular lymphoma 10/14, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) 11/25, marginal zone B-cell lymphoma 8/10, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma 2/2, plasma cell myeloma 0/2, and Burkitt lymphoma 0/9, but not in T/NK  cell lymphomas (0/19) or Hodgkin lymphoma (0/10). BAFF-R was expressed in most low-grade B-cell neoplasms and a small number of DLBCL, suggesting that BAFF-R may play an important role in the proliferation of neoplastic lymphoid cells. Thus, the mAb is very useful for further understanding of both healthy B-cell biology and its pathogenic neoplasms."
2404	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) consists of 2 prognostic entities where cases with mutated immunoglobulin V(H) genes have better outcome than unmutated cases. V(H)-mutated CLLs display longer telomeres compared with unmutated cases and telomere length has been indicated to predict outcome, although the prognostic value of telomere length has not been fully established in CLL. We analyzed telomere length, V(H) gene mutation status, and clinical parameters in a large series of CLL. Telomere length was assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), giving a very good correlation to telomere length estimated by Southern blotting (P < .001). The prognostic information given by mutation status (n = 282) and telomere length (n = 246) was significant (P < .001, respectively). Telomere length was a prognostic factor for stage A (P = .021) and stage B/C (P = .018) patients, whereas mutation status predicted outcome only in  stage A patients (P < .001). Furthermore, mutated CLLs were subdivided by telomere length into 2 groups with different prognoses (P = .003), a subdivision  not seen for unmutated cases (P = .232). Interestingly, the V(H)-mutated group with short telomeres had an overall survival close to that of the unmutated cases. Thus, by combining V(H) mutation status and telomere length, an improved subclassification of CLL was achieved identifying previously unrecognized patient groups with different outcomes."
2405	"Fibromodulin is an extracellular matrix protein normally produced by collagen-rich tissues; the fibromodulin gene has been found to be the most overexpressed gene in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In this study, fibromodulin was expressed at the gene level (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction [RT-PCR]) in all patients with B-CLL (n = 75) and in most (5 of 7) patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). No mutations in the fibromodulin gene were detected. Fibromodulin was also detected at the protein level in the cytoplasm of the B-CLL cells and in the supernatant after in vitro cultivation, but not at the cell surface. Fibromodulin was not found in patients with T-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (T-CLL), B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (B-PLL), T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL), hairy cell leukemia, follicular lymphoma, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, multiple myeloma, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), or chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) or in 36  hematologic cell lines. Normal blood mononuclear cells (T and B lymphocytes, monocytes), tonsil B cells, and granulocytes did not express fibromodulin. Activation (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate [PMA]/ionomycin) of normal T and B lymphocytes induced weak fibromodulin gene expression, but not to the extent seen in freshly isolated B-CLL cells. The reason for the exclusive ectopic expression  of fibromodulin in B-CLL and MCL is unknown. However, its unique protein expression makes it likely that fibromodulin is involved in the pathobiology of B-CLL and MCL."
2406	"Vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF) is a multifunctional cytokine involved in tumor formation. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), it is known that the malignant cells secrete VEGF and possess VEGF receptors. This suggests that an autocrine loop might be important in the pathogenesis of CLL. Here we show that, in patients with lymphadenopathy, autocrine VEGF and alpha(4)beta(1) integrin are involved in the chemokine-dependent motility of CLL cells on and through endothelium-processes important for the invasion of lymphoreticular tissues, a major determinant of disease outcome. In contrast, normal lymphocytes  were not dependent on autocrine VEGF or alpha(4)beta(1) for either type of cell movement. Moreover, in contrast to normal B lymphocytes, CLL cells failed to cluster and activate alpha(L)beta(2) in response to chemokines, unless VEGF receptor(s) and alpha(4)beta(1) were also engaged by their respective ligands. This is the first demonstration that autocrine VEGF is involved in CLL-cell motility, and that the alpha(L)beta(2) on the malignant cells is functionally altered compared with that of normal B cells in not undergoing activation in response to chemokine alone. Given the importance of cell motility for tissue invasion, the present results provide a rationale for a trial of VEGF and alpha(4) blockade in patients with CLL who have tissue disease."
2407	"The clinical course of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) differs significantly between patients with mutated (M-CLL) and unmutated (U-CLL) immunoglobulin (Ig) variable heavy-chain (V(H)) genes, implying a role for B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling in the pathogenesis of this disease. We have now investigated activation of downstream BCR signaling pathways in U-CLL and M-CLL B cells using  soluble anti-IgM (sol-IgM) and immobilized anti-IgM (imm-IgM) antibodies as models for antigenic stimulation. Ligation of the BCR with sol-IgM induced incomplete responses in both CLL subsets, resembling the pattern described for tolerant B cells. This response was characterized by transient phosphorylation of extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) and Akt (protein kinase B [PKB]), lack  of activation of c-JUN NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and variable activation of phospholipase Cgamma2 (PLCgamma2) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Stimulation with imm-IgM elicited a more complete BCR signal and significantly prolonged phosphorylation of ERK and Akt, indicating persistent or repetitive BCR signaling. Moreover, this type of stimulation increased the levels of the antiapoptotic protein myeloid cell leukemia-1 (Mcl-1) and protected from chemotherapy-induced apoptosis, whereas induction of apoptosis and down-regulation of Mcl-1 was observed following stimulation with sol-IgM. These data demonstrate that only sustained BCR signaling can promote survival of CLL B cells and indicate that the main difference between CLL with mutated and unmutated V(H) genes may reside in the availability of such stimulation."
2408	"Nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) DNA factors maintain genomic stability through their DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair and telomere-associated activities. Unrepaired or misrepaired DSBs can lead to apoptotic death or chromosomal damage. The B cells of some B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients are resistant to radiation-induced apoptosis in vitro. We show here that the novel DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) inhibitor, NU7026 (2-(morpholin-4-yl)-benzo[h]chomen-4-one), and the phosphatidylinositol 3 (PI-3)  kinase inhibitor, wortmannin, restored sensitivity to DNA damage-induced apoptosis of otherwise resistant cells. These resistant malignant B cells also escaped DSB-induced apoptosis following exposure to etoposide or neocarzinostatin. We found that at 15 minutes after irradiation, the levels of NHEJ (as measured by an in vitro DSB end-ligation assay) and DNA-PK catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) activity were, respectively, 2-fold and 4-fold higher in radio-resistant than in radio-sensitive B-CLL cells or Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B cells. Ku70/Ku80 heterodimer DNA end-binding activity was also 2- to 3-fold higher in the resistant B-CLL cell subset compared with the sensitive B-CLL cell subset. Our results provide the first evidence that overactivating the NHEJ DNA repair pathway impairs DNA damage-induced apoptosis in malignant B cells and that this may contribute to their resistance to current  chemotherapy."
2409	"Rituximab, a chimeric Ab directed against CD20, induces apoptosis in targeted cells. Although the majority of B cell malignancies express the CD20 Ag, only approximately 50% of patients will respond to single-agent rituximab. The available data suggest that a decreased CD20 expression could account for the lack of response observed in some patients treated with rituximab. Despite the potential critical role of CD20 in the biology of B cell malignancies, the mechanisms controlling its expression are poorly understood. We evaluated the effect of the immune modulator agent bryostatin-1 on the expression of CD20 in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma cells. Using the B cell lines, DB and RAMOS, as well as tumor cells derived from a chronic lymphocytic leukemia patient, we demonstrated  that bryostatin-1 enhanced the expression of both CD20 mRNA and protein. The enhanced expression of CD20 was associated with increased transcriptional activity of the CD20 gene, whereas the stability of CD20 mRNA was not affected. The effect of bryostatin-1 on CD20 expression in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma cells was mediated through the MAPK kinase/ERK signal transduction pathway and involved protein kinase C, but was independent of p38 MAPK and was insensitive to dexamethasone. Cells pretreated with bryostatin-1 were more susceptible to the proapoptotic effect of anti-CD20 Ab. Overall, these data demonstrate for the first time that ERK phosphorylation is required for the up-regulated expression of CD20 on B cell malignancies. The findings also suggest that bryostatin-1 and rituximab could be a valuable combined therapy for B cell malignancies."
2410	"PURPOSE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clinically heterogeneous disease for which natural history can be predicted based on the presence or absence of immunoglobulin (Ig) variable heavy chain (V(H)) gene mutations. Herein we report  selective epigenetic silencing of the transcription factor TWIST2 (DERMO1) in Ig  V(H) mutated CLL and describe a semiquantitative assay to study promoter methylation of this gene in primary tumor cells. MATERIALS AND METHODS: TWIST2 promoter methylation was identified by restriction  landmark genome scanning. Southern blot (SB), bisulfite sequencing, and combined  bisulfite restriction analysis (COBRA), and quantitative SB-COBRA was performed to study methylation of the TWIST2 promoter. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assays were used to study TWIST2 expression in CLL cells. RESULTS: Following identification and confirmation of TWIST2 methylation in CLL patients, we demonstrated that expression of this transcription factor is related to the degree of promoter methylation. Expression of TWIST2 in a CLL cell line in which the promoter is methylated was increased following decitabine treatment. We next studied 53 patients by COBRA and demonstrated that 72% of patient samples with mutated Ig V(H) show TWIST2 methylation, while only 16% of patient samples with unmutated Ig V(H) were methylated (P < .001). In a subset of patients, methylation of TWIST2 correlated with mRNA expression. CONCLUSION: TWIST2 is differentially methylated in CLL cells relative to Ig V(H)  mutational status and can be quantitatively monitored by SB-COBRA. Based on the known role of TWIST2 in silencing p53 function in other malignancies, future studies should focus on the role of TWIST2 in CLL and related lymphoproliferative diseases."
2411	"The diagnosis of B-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorders is a great challenge when made in a background of polyclonal B cells. We studied the diagnostic usefulness of aberrant CD22 expression for differentiating neoplastic  from benign B cells by 4-color flow cytometry. Of 56 cases of B-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorders, we found that neoplastic cells showed aberrant CD22 expression in 39 (70%) of 56 cases, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia,  mantle cell lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia, and follicular lymphoma. In 4 cases, monoclonality was detected definitively only by evaluating  the immunoglobulin light chain restriction in B cells with aberrant CD22 expression because numerous polyclonal B cells were present. Aberrant CD22 expression is a useful marker for detection of monoclonal B cells admixed with numerous benign polyclonal B cells."
2412	"Flow cytometric histograms were evaluated for bimodal antigen expression on samples from 246 patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) at University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH. Survival data were obtained, and the clinical significance of bimodality was evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier  method and the log-rank test. Bimodal antigen expression was found in 107 cases (43.5%). CD38 and CD13 were the most common antigens to demonstrate bimodality at 14.5% and 12.9%, respectively, and CD20, CD11c, CD5, FMC-7, and surface immunoglobulin also were frequently bimodal. Bimodal antigen expression, the number of bimodal antigens, and bimodality of a specific antigen were not associated with decreased survival in patients with CLL, although bimodality for  CD38 trended toward worse overall survival. Therefore, although bimodal antigen expression is common in CLL, the presence of bimodality does not seem to have significant prognostic importance"
2413	"Recent studies have suggested that protein kinase C (PKC) activation plays an important role in survival of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In order to characterize the role of PKC in CLL, we investigated the expression pattern of PKC isoforms in CLL cells (7 cases) and evaluated the effect of PKC inhibition on the survival of CLL cells (20 cases). Expression of the classical PKC isoforms beta and gamma, the novel isoform delta and the atypical isoform zeta was seen in all analyzed patient samples by Western blot analysis. Expression of the PKC isoforms alpha, epsilon, and iota was variable. Following incubation with the PKC inhibitor, safingol, CLL cells underwent marked apoptosis in all cases. In order  to characterize the molecular events associated with the apoptotic effect of PKC  inhibition, gene expression patterns in CLL cells were evaluated by cDNA-microarray analysis. Following safingol treatment, several genes showed marked downregulation and PKC-related proteins demonstrated decreased hybridization signals. Among these proteins, CREB and Daxx were further studied by using Western blotting, nuclear binding assay and confocal immunofluorescent microscopy. These studies showed significant inhibition of these proteins, consistent with the results of microarray gene analysis. Overall, these findings  suggest that PKC activation is important for CLL cell survival and that inhibitors of PKC may have a role in the treatment of patients with CLL."
2414	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common form of leukemia in Western countries, rarely induces glomerular disease, but membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis or immunotactoid glomerulopathy has been reported. The proliferating cells in CLL are of mature B-cell origin and produce monoclonal immunoglobulin (Ig), thus leading to various kinds of autoimmune disorders or immunotactoid glomerulopathy. Although there have been a few reported cases of amyloidosis accompanying CLL, the type of amyloid fibrils has not been demonstrated nor described in detail, particularly regarding monoclonal Ig productivity. We report a rare case of amyloidosis associated with CLL, in which  we detected ?-light chain type monoclonal Ig in the sera, urine, and on the surface membrane of lymphocytes, and discuss an association between monoclonal Ig-related disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma."
2415	"Expression of CD43 by B cells is often used as a diagnostic criterion in favor of a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder, including small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia, mantle cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, precursor B-lymphoblastic lymphoma, and a subset of marginal zone B-cell lymphomas. Benign B cells generally do not coexpress CD43. The authors analyzed 20 biopsies of the terminal ileum for nonneoplastic disease for expression of CD43 and compared them with other sites and with CD20, CD138, and CD3 reactivity. The majority of cases (85%) showed strong coexpression of CD43 by benign perifollicular B cells. The presence of CD43 coexpression in B-cell populations of the terminal ileum, including those of Peyer's patches, should not be used as  a diagnostic parameter to differentiate extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma  of MALT type from reactive processes."
2416	"Myeloid cell leukemia-1 (MCL-1) acts as a key survival factor for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. In addition, dissipation of cellular bioenergy  may impose a lethal effect on these quiescent cells. Previously, in multiple myeloma cell lines we demonstrated that halogenated adenosine (8-Cl-Ado) was phosphorylated to triphosphate (8-Cl-adenosine triphosphate [ATP]), which preferentially incorporated into mRNA and inhibited RNA synthesis by premature transcription termination. Furthermore, 8-Cl-ATP accumulation was associated with a decline in cellular bioenergy. Based on these actions, we hypothesized that 8-Cl-Ado would be ideal to target CLL lymphocytes. In the present study we demonstrate that leukemic lymphocytes incubated with 8-Cl-Ado display time- and dose-dependent increase in the accumulation of 8-Cl-ATP, with a parallel depletion of the endogenous ATP pool. Inhibition of global RNA synthesis resulted in a significant decline in the expression of transcripts with a short half-life  such as MCL1. Consistent to this, protein expression of MCL-1 but not B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) was decreased. Furthermore, 8-Cl-ATP induced programmed cell death, as suggested by caspases activation, cleavage of caspase 3, and PARP (poly-adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose polymerase), and increased DNA fragmentation. In conclusion, 8-Cl-Ado induces apoptosis in CLL lymphocytes by targeting cellular bioenergy as well as RNA transcription and translation of key  survival genes such as MCL1."
2417	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a clinically variable disease where mutations in DNA damage response genes ATM or TP53 affect the response to standard therapeutic agents. The in vitro cytotoxicity of a novel cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, CYC202, was evaluated in 26 B-CLLs, 11 with mutations in either the ATM or TP53 genes, and compared with that induced by ionizing radiation and fludarabine. CYC202 induced apoptosis within 24 hours of treatment in all 26 analyzed tumor samples independently of ATM and TP53 gene status, whereas 6 of 26 B-CLLs, mostly ATM mutant, showed marked in vitro resistance to fludarabine-induced apoptosis. Compared with B-CLLs, normal T and B lymphocytes treated with CYC202 displayed reduced and delayed apoptosis. Using global gene expression profiling, we found that CYC202 caused a significant down-regulation of genes involved in regulation of transcription, translation, survival, and DNA repair. Furthermore, induction of apoptosis by CYC202 was preceded by inhibition of RNA polymerase II phosphorylation, leading to down-regulation of several prosurvival proteins. We conclude that CYC202 is a potent inducer of apoptosis in B-CLL regardless of the functional status of the p53 pathway, and may be considered as a therapeutic agent to improve the outcome  of resistant B-CLL tumors."
2420	"PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of the fludarabine/cyclophosphamide combination in patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL) and low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and to assess the impact of adding granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) to this regimen in a randomized fashion. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-four patients (CLL, n=16; low-grade NHL, n=18) were  enrolled. The median number of previous treatments was 2. Patients received <or=6 cycles of fludarabine at 30 mg/m2 per day and cyclophosphamide at 300 mg/m2 per day on days 1-3 of a 28-day cycle. Patients were randomized to supportive care or to receive GM-CSF at 250 mg/m2 per day, starting 24 hours after completion of chemotherapy and continuing up to 48 hours before the next cycle. Those who had received >6 months of previous therapy with an alkylating agent or had preexisting cytopenias received a 25% dose reduction. Twenty-two patients (65%) were randomized to receive GM-CSF. Patients completed a median of 5 cycles of treatment (range, 1-6 cycles). Twenty-seven patients (80%) received >or=3 cycles  of treatment and were evaluated for response. RESULTS: Seven patients (26%) exhibited a complete response; 6 of the 7 had low-grade NHL. Fourteen patients (52%) exhibited a partial response, and 6 patients (22%) had stable disease. Notably, 6 of the 7 patients who exhibited complete response and 9 of 14 patients with partial responses were randomized to  the GM-CSF arm. The duration of response ranged from 4 months to 26 months. The toxicities were mainly hematologic. Nineteen patients (70%) experienced >or=1 episode of grade 3/4 neutropenia, but only 4 (15%) experienced febrile neutropenia; 3 of those patients were assigned to the GM-CSF arm. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide is a well-tolerated and effective treatment regimen for patients with relapsed CLL and low-grade NHL. A higher percentage of complete responses were noted in patients with low-grade NHL compared with patients with CLL. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor did not seem to decrease the incidence of febrile neutropenia. However, the higher number of complete and partial responses noted on the GM-CSF arm is intriguing and warrants further investigation."
2421	"Reactive oxygen molecules are formed in vivo as by-products of normal aerobic metabolism. All organisms dependent on oxygen are inevitably exposed to these species so that DNA damage can occur in both genomic and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). In order to determine endogenous DNA damage we have developed an analytical method that involves the isolation and hydrolysis of genomic DNA or mtDNA, the labeling of modified and unmodified nucleotides and micellar electrokinetic chromatography with laser-induced fluorescence detection. With this method we have found etheno-adenine, thymine glycol, uracil, hypoxanthine, and 5-methylcytosine. These were identified by the addition of internal standards to the genomic or mtDNA. There are a large number of other signals in the electropherograms of mtDNA that we have never found in genomic DNA analysis because they are at lower concentration in the genome. In the DNA of untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), uracil and high levels of etheno-adenine were found, which can be explained by antioxidant enzyme alterations and oxidative stress in the CLL lymphocytes."
2422	"Fludarabine is frequently used for treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and in conditioning regimes for hematopoietic cell transplantations. The total body clearance of the principal metabolite 2-fluoro-ara-A (2F-Ara-A) correlates with the creatinine clearance. We report data on total dialysate concentration as well as pharmacokinetics of 2F-Ara-A in a patient with anuric acute renal failure. On three consecutive days the patient received a daily dose  of 80 mg (40 mg/m(2)) fludarabine and underwent three consecutive extended (daily) dialysis (ED) sessions. ED removed a considerable amount of the drug. The average dialysis clearance was 33.85 ml/min which is about 25% of the clearance in patients without renal failure. No toxic side effects of the treatment were observed. This case suggests that fludarabine treatment can be considered in patients requiring dialysis if dose reduction and adequate removal of the drug by hemodialysis is provided."
2423	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) results from the relentless accumulation of small mature, slowly dividing, monoclonal B-lymphocytes. The clinical course is heterogeneous, some patients with aggressive form of the disease progressing rapidly with early death while others exhibit a more stable, possibly, non-progressing indolent type of the disease lasting many years. Despite progress in modern treatment modalities, relapse invariably occurs and disease still remains incurable. The clinical management of CLL is therefore challenging and considerable effort has been directed towards novel therapeutic strategies aimed  at reducing minimal residual disease which can increase remission duration. Recent insight into the role of dendritic cells (DCs) as pivotal antigen presenting cells that initiate immune responses may provide the basis for generating more specific and effective immune responses. Ex-vivo modified and monocyte-derived DCs represents a promising approach within the context of CLL. However, understanding the relationship between DCs and the cellular immune response is crucial in devising strategies for manipulating immune responses. After a brief survey of general properties of DCs, this review focuses on the different approaches exploiting monocyte-derived DCs in CLL, which may help to design novel strategies for phase-I clinical trials."
2424	"Recent advances in tumor immunology have resulted in identification of many epithelial cancer-related antigens and peptides applicable to specific immunotherapy. We and others have reported that several epithelial cancer-related antigens are also expressed in hematological malignancies. Two patients with hematological malignancy (multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia) were vaccinated with peptides derived from epithelial cancer-related antigens to evaluate the immune responses to peptides under a personalized peptide vaccination regimen. There was no adverse event except for local skin reaction at the injection site. The peptide vaccination augmented both peptide-specific CTLs  cytotoxic to hematological malignant cells in post-vaccination peripheral blood mononuclear cells and peptide-specific IgG in post-vaccination sera. A transient  but obvious decrease of malignant cells was observed at the early phase of the vaccination in both cases. Vaccines consisting of peptides derived from epithelial cancer antigens safely increased anti-tumor cell activity in patients  with hematological malignancies. These results may provide a scientific rationale in use of epithelial cancer-related antigens for specific immunotherapy to patients with hematological malignancies."
2425	"Interleukin-10 (IL10), an anti-inflammatory cytokine, has been implicated in a variety of immune- and inflammatory-related diseases. We investigated the following SNPs: -1082, -819, -592 in the promoter region of IL10 in a normal (control) population and selected diseases: breast cancer (BrCa), systemic lupus  erythematosus (SLE), and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) and found distinct genotype and haplotype patterns. DHPLC was performed using the Transgenomic WAVE  instrument, a mutational discovery tool that allows for high throughout analysis  of SNPs. The principle of DHPLC is based on separation of homo- and heteroduplex  formation of individual polymerase chain reaction products at specific melting temperatures and set gradients. The melting temperature selected for each SNP was based on size and sequence of the polymerase chain reaction product (for -1082, 57 degrees C; for -819, 58 degrees C; and for -592, 59.2 degrees C). Before fragment mutational analysis, all samples were denatured at 95 degrees C and slowly reannealed to allow for reassociation of different strands. Heteroduplex samples were easily distinguished from homoduplex samples. In order to identify wild type from homozygous mutant, two homoduplex polymerase chain reaction samples had to be mixed together, denatured at 95 degrees C and reannealed. The homozygous mutant, when combined with wild type, displayed a double peak on chromatogram. Once distinct chromatograms were established for each of the SNPs and the nucleotide changes confirmed by sequencing, genotype and haplotype frequencies were tabulated for the groups studied."
2426	"We used a proteomic approach for identifying molecules involved in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We investigated 14 patients who were completely concordant for IgV(H) mutational status (unmutated vs. mutated), CD38 expression (positive vs. negative), and clinical behavior (progressive vs. stable); these patients were characterized as having either poor or good prognoses. The 2 patient subsets differed in the expression of hematopoietic lineage cell-specific protein 1 (HS1). In patients with poor prognoses, most HS1 protein was constitutively phosphorylated, whereas only a fraction was phosphorylated in patients with good prognoses. This difference was  investigated in a larger cohort of 26 unselected patients. The survival curve of  all 40 patients analyzed revealed that patients with predominately phosphorylated HS1 experience a significantly shorter median survival time. As HS1 is a protein  pivotal in the signal cascade triggered by B cell receptor (BCR) stimulation, we  studied its pattern of expression following BCR engagement. Normal mature B cells stimulated by anti-IgM shifted the non- or less-phosphorylated form of HS1 toward the more phosphorylated form. Naive B cells showed both HS1 forms while memory B  cells expressed mainly the phosphorylated fraction. These data indicate a central role for antigen stimulation in CLL and suggest a new therapeutic target for patients with aggressive disease."
2427	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a disease of expanding monoclonal B  cells whose B cell receptor (BCR) mutational status defines 2 subgroups; patients with mutated BCRs have a more favorable prognosis than those with unmutated BCRs. CLL B cells express a restricted BCR repertoire including antibodies with quasi-identical complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3), which suggests specific antigen recognition. The antigens recognized by CLL antibodies may include autoantigens since about half of CLL B cells produce autoreactive antibodies. However, the distribution of autoreactive antibodies between Ig heavy-chain variable-unmutated (IgV-unmutated) CLL (UM-CLL) and IgV-mutated CLL (M-CLL) is unknown. To determine the role of antibody reactivity and the impact of somatic hypermutation (SHM) on CLL antibody specificity, we cloned and expressed in vitro recombinant antibodies from M- and UM-CLL B cells and tested their reactivity by ELISA. We found that UM-CLL B cells expressed highly polyreactive antibodies whereas most M-CLL B cells did not. When mutated nonautoreactive CLL antibody sequences were reverted in vitro to their germline counterparts, they encoded polyreactive and autoreactive antibodies. We concluded that both UM-CLLs and M-CLLs originate from self-reactive B cell precursors and that SHM plays an important role in the development of the disease by altering original BCR autoreactivity."
2428	"PURPOSE: In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the VH mutation status and genomic aberrations (13q-, +12q, 11q-, 17p-) identify distinct prognostic subgroups. The aim was to elucidate biologic mechanisms through which  these genetic markers may exert their pathogenic influence. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-four genes involved in apoptosis, cell cycle, B-cell activation, and B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling were analyzed by real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) in 82 CLL cases constituting prototypic genetic CLL subgroups as defined by the VH mutation status and the genomic aberrations 13q-, +12, 11q-, and 17p-. RESULTS: The VH mutation subgroups were characterized by a differential expression of the BCR associated genes ZAP70 and PI3K. Among the subgroups defined by genomic aberrations, there was a deregulation of candidate genes from  the affected critical genomic regions such as CDK4 (up), ATM (down), and TP53 (down) in the groups +12, 11q-, and 17p-, respectively. Additionally, the genomic subgroups were characterized by a significant deregulation of cell cycle and apoptosis regulators: AKT (up) in 13q, E2F1 (up) in +12, MYC (up) and BCL-2 (down) in 17p-, and CCND3 (down) in 11q- as well as 17p-. The 17p- subgroup showed an additional down-regulation of BCR-associated genes such as SYK and PI3K. CONCLUSION: The characteristic gene expression patterns observed implicate a differential regulation of cell cycle, apoptosis, and BCR signaling in the genetic subgroups illustrating distinct pathomechanisms and are evidence for a gene dosage effect being operative in CLL. These findings link the biologic diversity and clinical heterogeneity of CLL."
2429	"PURPOSE: Patients with chemotherapy-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have a short life expectancy. The aim of this study was to analyze the outcome of patients with advanced CLL when treated with nonmyeloablative conditioning and hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-four patients diagnosed with advanced CLL were treated with nonmyeloablative conditioning (2 Gy total-body irradiation with [n = 53] or without [n = 11] fludarabine) and HCT from related (n = 44) or unrelated (n = 20) donors. An adapted form of the Charlson comorbidity index was used to assess pretransplantation comorbidities. RESULTS: Sixty-one of 64 patients had sustained engraftment, whereas three patients rejected their grafts. The incidences of grades 2, 3, and 4 acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease were 39%, 14%, 2%, and 50%, respectively. Three patients who underwent transplantation in complete remission (CR) remained in CR. The overall response rate among 61 patients with measurable disease was 67% (50%  CR), whereas 5% had stable disease. All patients with morphologic CR who were tested by polymerase chain reaction (n = 11) achieved negative molecular results, and one of these patients subsequently experienced disease relapse. The 2-year incidence of relapse/progression was 26%, whereas the 2-year relapse and nonrelapse mortalities were 18% and 22%, respectively. Two-year rates of overall  and disease-free survivals were 60% and 52%, respectively. Unrelated HCT resulted in higher CR and lower relapse rates than related HCT, suggesting more effective  graft-versus-leukemia activity. CONCLUSION: CLL is susceptible to graft-versus-leukemia effects, and allogeneic HCT after nonmyeloablative conditioning might prolong median survival for patients with advanced CLL."
2431	"A 68-year-old woman with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) had acute optic neuropathy associated with cerebrospinal fluid evidence of meningeal spread of CLL. There was no evidence of a hematologic relapse. After undergoing four weekly doses of intrathecal methotrexate, vision improved dramatically and spinal fluid  became normal. Four years later, she has near normal vision in the affected eye and remains in hematologic remission. This is the first reported case of successful treatment of optic neuropathy in CLL with intrathecal methotrexate alone."
2432	"The identification of clinically relevant, active immunomodulatory agents is important for developing immunotherapeutic approaches to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other B-cell lymphomas that are not curable with conventional  chemotherapy. In this investigation, the imidazoquinoline Toll-like receptor (TLR)-7/8 agonist, imiquimod, was found to mediate the clearance of a lymphomatous skin lesion in a CLL patient. Imidazoquinolines also activated TLR-7/8 signaling pathways, resulting in increased expression of costimulatory molecules on circulating tumor cells. These observations extend the therapeutic spectrum of imiquimod to cutaneous B-cell lymphomas and suggest the use of TLR-7/8 agonists in CLL immunotherapy."
2433	"Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is an uncommon, neuroendocrine skin tumor with an aggressive clinical course. The etiology of the disease is unknown, although sun  exposure and immunosuppression may play a role in its development. Coexistence of MCC with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is extremely rare and to our knowledge it has been previously described in only 8 patients. We report a 51-year-old woman who presented with a red lump on the right cheek diagnosed as MCC. She had been diagnosed as having CLL 3 years earlier and was treated with 4  courses of cladribine (2-CdA) and subsequently with 4 courses of 2-CdA combined with rituximab. MCC was diagnosed on the basis of histological and immunohistochemical evaluation 2 months after the last course of 2-CdA and rituximab. Surgical excision with tumor-free margins was performed and local adjuvant radiotherapy was applied. Histopathological and immunohistochemical evaluation of the cervical lymph node specimens showed monotonous and diffuse infiltrate of small CD5+, CD20+, CD23+ lymphocytes and no MCC cells were present. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of MCC occurring in CLL patients soon after treatment with 2-CdA and/or rituximab. The development of MCC in our patient may suggest that this complication rarely observed in CLL patients may have a link with strongly immunosuppressive therapy with 2-CdA and rituximab."
2434	"To elucidate whether reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) decreases treatment-related mortality (TRM) after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we retrospectively compared 73 RIC cases from a recent EBMT survey with 82 patients from the EBMT database who had undergone standard myeloablative conditioning (MC) for CLL during the same time period. The two populations were matched by adjusting the primary risk factor, the conditioning regimen, in a series of Cox models for age, sex, donor type, remission status at transplant and analyzed for its effect on TRM, relapse  incidence, event-free (EFS) and overall survival (OS). After adjustment, a significant reduction of TRM became evident for the RIC population (hazard ratio  (HR) 0.4 (95% confidence interval 0.18-0.9); P=0.03). On the other hand, RIC was  associated with an increased relapse incidence (HR 2.65 (0.98-7.12); P=0.054). There was no significant difference between RIC and MC in terms of EFS (HR 0.69 (0.38-1.25); P=0.22) and OS (HR 0.65 (0.33-1.28); P=0.21). We conclude that RIC appears to favorably influence TRM after allo-SCT for CLL. This observation, as well as possible detrimental effects of RIC on relapse risk, should be confirmed  by prospective studies."
2435	"The Syk family tyrosine kinase ZAP-70 is essential for normal T-cell development  and signaling. Recently, leukemic cells from some patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) were shown to express ZAP-70. Owing to the prognostic value of B-CLL ZAP-70 expression, this phenotype may reflect intrinsic biological differences between the two subsets of disease. However, it remains unclear whether CLL-B cells aberrantly acquire ZAP-70 expression during the transformation process or whether ZAP-70 may be expressed under certain conditions in normal human B-lymphocytes. To discriminate between these two possibilities, we assessed ZAP-70 expression in normal human B-lymphocytes. Our data demonstrate that ZAP-70 is expressed in a subpopulation of tonsillar and splenic normal B-lymphocytes that express an activated phenotype. Furthermore, ZAP-70 expression can be induced in vitro upon stimulation of blood and tonsillar B cells. Finally, we show that phosphorylation of ZAP-70 occurs in tonsillar B cells with stimulation through the B-cell receptor. These results provide new insight into normal human B-cell biology as well as provide clues about the transformed cell in B-CLL."
2436	"The introduction of microarray analysis represents a revolution in the scientific field, allowing to investigate thousand of genes in a single experiment. Important biological insights have been revealed by this technique in several tumors: in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), these studies have allowed to identify specific patterns associated with known molecular abnormalities, as well as with phenotypic characteristics and with different prognostic features. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), this approach has helped to dissect that this disease is a single entity with distinct variants that are characterized by a diverse IgVH mutational status, that can be discriminated by a small set of genes, has allowed to define a similarity between this disease and memory B cells and has also led to hypothesize that CLL cells from IgVH unmutated patients may be continuously stimulated in vivo, thus showing a gene profile that is reminiscent of the B cell receptor. In multiple myeloma (MM), gene expression profiles has provided insights into the disease and has offered the opportunity of stratifying patients according to the degree of aggressiveness of the disease. Current efforts are directed to the identification of patterns that may distinguish patients with a different outcome, thus providing useful prognostic information and to design experiments that may allow the identification of new therapeutic targets."
2438	"The epidemiologic literature on benzene exposure and leukemia in the MEDLINE and  TOXNET databases was examined through October 2004 using the keywords "benzene",  "leukemia" and "adverse health effects". This search was complemented by reviewing the reference lists from extant literature reviews and criteria documents on benzene. Published studies were characterized according to the type  of industry studied and design, exposure assessment, disease classification, and  control for confounding variables. Study design consisted of either cohort studies or case-control studies, which were further categorized into population-based and nested case-control studies. Disease classification considered the source of diagnostic information, whether there was clinical confirmation from medical records or histopathological, morphological and/or cytogenetic reviews, and as to whether the International Classification of Diseases (ICD) or the French-American-British (FAB) schemes were used (no studies used the Revised European-American Lymphoma (REAL) classification scheme). Nine cohort and 13 case-control studies met inclusion criteria for this review. High and significant acute myeloid leukemia risks with positive dose response relationships were identified across study designs, particularly in the "well-conducted" cohort studies and especially in more highly exposed workers in  rubber, shoe, and paint industries. Risks for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  tended to show elevations in nested case-control studies, with possible dose response relationships in at least two of the three studies. However, cohort studies on CLL show no such risks. Data for chronic myeloid leukemia and acute lymphocytic leukemia are sparse and inconclusive."
2440	"The BCL-2 family has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various hematopoietic malignancies, including follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. To identify genes that act synergistically in BCL2-enforced leukemogenesis, we developed a murine B-cell lymphoma/leukemia model based on the IL-3-dependent Balb/C pro-B line (FL5.12). FL5.12 cells were stably transfected with antiapoptotic BCL-2 alone or in combination with proapoptotic BAX or nonfunctional mutant BAX, thereby creating various levels of imbalance within the BCL-2 family. Transfectants were intravenously injected into normal Balb/C mice.  Whereas FL5.12 cells did not provoke leukemia, mice injected with stable transfectants died of leukemia over time. Disease incidence and latency time depended on the degree of imbalance in the BCL-2 family, supporting a model whereby BCL2 drives tumorigenesis. All mice presented with hepatosplenomegaly and leukemic FL5.12 cells in peripheral blood and bone marrow compartments. Leukemic  conversion was accompanied by secondary genetic aberrations leading to clonal IL-3-responsive leukemia. Cellular transformation was independent of alterations  in c-Myc or downstream apoptotic pathway. Leukemic clones retained a normal DNA damage response leading to elevated P53 and P21 levels and cell cycle arrest upon irradiation. In conclusion, our mouse model may prove a valuable tool to identify genes that cooperate in BCL2-enforced lymphoma/leukemogenesis."
2441	"Alemtuzumab, a monoclonal anti-CD52 antibody has been shown to be highly effective in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, even in fludarabine-refractory  disease. The mechanism of action is currently unknown, but may rely on complement-mediated cell lysis and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. The  aim of this study was to assess the proapoptotic activity of alemtuzumab in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and to describe pathways potentially underlying this effect. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 21 chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients were treated in vitro in the absence of complement with fludarabine alone, alemtuzumab alone, or with the additional presence of a cross-linking anti-Fc-antibody. Apoptosis was quantified after 24 h by flow cytometry analysis. Expression of several pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins was determined at different time points. Apoptosis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells treated with alemtuzumab alone was significantly enhanced compared to untreated cells suggesting a minor potentially cytotoxic mechanism by direct signaling independent from antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. The presence of a cross-linking anti-Fc-antibody induced the formation of cell clusters and enhanced apoptosis significantly suggesting a potential role of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity in alemtuzumab induced apoptosis. Alemtuzumab activated a CD52-dependent signaling pathway which induced a significant increase in caspase 3 and 8 expression. Alemtuzumab significantly enhances apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in vitro, especially in  combination with a cross-linking anti-Fc-antibody, this effect being mediated by  a caspase-dependent pathway."
2442	"In this study we use replicate 2D-LC-MS/MS analyses of crude membranes from B cells derived from a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to examine the protein expression profile of CLL B cells. Protein identifications made by replicate 2D-LC-MS/MS analysis of tryptic peptides from detergent solubilized B cell membrane proteins, as well as replicate LC-MS/MS analysis of single off-line strong cation exchange chromatography (SCX) fractions, were analyzed. We show that despite the variance in SCX, capillary LC, and the data-dependent selection  of precursor ions, an overlap of 64% between proteins identified in replicate runs was achieved for this system."
2443	"Despite the low incidence of microsatellite instability (MSI) in lymphoid malignant neoplasms, it has been reported that the CD5 promoter MSI was relatively frequent among B-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorders. We studied the presence of MSI in the CD5 promoter in 134 cases of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and 47 of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) by comparing the pattern of microsatellite repeats on autologous germline and tumor DNA samples. Microsatellite alterations were not observed in any case. However, the allele distribution of this polymorphism showed a higher frequency of the 18 CA allele (0.585) in MCL cases (P = .026; odds ratio [OR], 1.75; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.07-2.87) and of the 19 CA allele (0.179) in B-CLL cases (P = .005; OR, 2.26; 95% CI, 1.27-4.01) compared with control cases (0.442 and 0.087,  respectively). This suggests that although MSI seems not to be involved in the pathogenesis of these 2 lymphoid malignant neoplasms, the polymorphic CD5 promoter is associated with increased susceptibility to these disorders."
2444	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is associated with an increased incidence of secondary neoplasms. Primary brain tumors are rarely seen; however, an increased  risk relative to the general population has been observed in male patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. A case report of a 62-year-old man with progressive chronic lymphocytic leukemia and pronounced neurologic symptoms is presented. Richter's syndrome or brain infiltration with leukemia cells was clinically suspected and suggested by computed tomography findings. Progression of the neurologic symptoms rapidly continued and the patient died. Neuropathologic examination revealed multicentric glial tumors of a varying degree of differentiation located throughout the brain and cerebellum."
2445	"The incidence and histologic features of malignant lymphomas discovered at the time of prostate biopsy, transurethral resection, and prostatectomy are not well  documented. We searched our surgical pathology files for malignant lymphomas identified from prostate surgical specimens from 1989 to 2004. Of 4,831 cases of  prostate specimens (3,405 biopsies, 266 transurethral resections, 1,160 prostatectomies) examined at the City of Hope during this period, 29 cases of malignant lymphomas involving the prostate and pelvic lymph nodes were identified (0.6%). These malignant lymphomas can be divided into two groups: 1) 18 incidental cases (0.37%) without prior history of malignant lymphoma; and 2) 11 cases (0.23%) with concurrent known malignant lymphoma. For the first group, the  patients with pelvic node involvement ranged in age from 59 to 78 years (mean, 69.2 years; median, 70 years), and the patients with prostate involvement ranged  in age from 45 to 78 years (mean, 64.6 years; median, 67.5 years). For the second group, the patients ranged in age from 53 to 80 years (mean, 66.8 years; median,  69 years). Diagnoses of all cases were confirmed by immunohistochemistry or molecular analysis. Ten of 18 cases in the first group involved pelvic nodes only, and the other 8 cases were primary prostatic lymphoma. Of 18 cases in the first group, 13 were small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia (SLL/CLL), 3 were marginal zone B-cell lymphoma, and 1 was mantle cell lymphoma.  These lymphomas were not readily apparent in most cases by histologic examination, and may be confused with chronic prostatitis when the prostate was involved or with reactive lymphoid hyperplasia when pelvic nodes were involved. Immunohistochemistry and molecular studies may be necessary to confirm the diagnosis. For the second group, prostate and pelvic lymph nodes were involved as part of systemic dissemination of concurrent malignant lymphoma. The diagnosis was usually easily established in these cases. Of 11 cases, 4 were SLL/CLL, 4 were follicular lymphoma, 2 were mantle cell lymphoma, and 1 was diffuse large B-cell lymphoma."
2446	"CONTEXT: The retroperitoneum is an uncommon location for primary lymphomatous involvement. Initial presentation of disease in this site (primary retroperitoneal lymphoma) is considered to be rare. Because of the uncommon anatomic location, the diagnosis and subsequent management of these patients tend to be difficult for both pathologists and clinicians. OBJECTIVE: This report describes our experience during a period of 6 years 4 months with patients with hematologic malignancies primarily presenting in the retroperitoneum. DESIGN: A retrospective search of our medical records generated 32 patients who presented initially with abdominal pain or discomfort as their predominant symptom and who were found by imaging studies to have retroperitoneal mass or masses. All the histopathology slides were reviewed and classified based on the World Health Organization classification. RESULTS: There were 13 male and 19 female patients. Tumor types included diffuse  large B-cell lymphoma (n = 12); grade 1 follicular lymphoma (n = 4); grade 3 follicular lymphoma (n = 1); B chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (n = 2); multiple myeloma (n = 1); mixed-cellularity Hodgkin lymphoma (n = 1); nodular sclerosis Hodgkin lymphoma (n = 1); aggressive B-cell lymphoma (n = 4); low-grade B-cell lymphoma (n = 4); lymphoblastic lymphoma, null cell type (n  = 1); and precursor B-lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia (n = 1). More than half of  the cases (17/32) were diagnosed on needle biopsy with immunophenotyping. CONCLUSIONS: Although open lymph node biopsy is a preferred method for diagnosis, needle biopsy plays a significant role in this setting, and, coupled with other information such as flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry, it is considered a practical and reliable method."
2447	"Profiling studies using microarrays to measure messenger RNA (mRNA) expression frequently identify long lists of differentially expressed genes. Differential expression is often validated using real-time reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR)  assays. In conventional real-time RT-PCR assays, expression is normalized to a control, or housekeeping gene. However, no single housekeeping gene can be used for all studies. We used TaqMan Low-Density Arrays, a medium-throughput method for real-time RT-PCR using microfluidics to simultaneously assay the expression of 96 genes in nine samples of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We developed a novel statistical method, based on linear mixed-effects models, to analyze the data. This method automatically identifies the genes whose expression does not vary significantly over the samples, allowing them to be used to normalize the remaining genes. We compared the normalized real-time RT-PCR values with results  obtained from Affymetrix Hu133A GeneChip oligonucleotide microarrays. We found that real-time RT-PCR using TaqMan Low-Density Arrays yielded reproducible measurements over seven orders of magnitude. Our model identified numerous genes  that were expressed at nearly constant levels, including the housekeeping genes PGK1, GAPD, GUSB, TFRC, and 18S rRNA. After normalizing to the geometric mean of  the unvarying genes, the correlation between real-time RT-PCR and microarrays was high for genes that were moderately expressed and varied across samples."
2448	"BACKGROUND: It is well known that genetic variability affects the risk of many cancers, but details of the patterning of inherited cancer risk across different  sites and age groups still are not well quantified. METHODS: The authors conducted a nested case-control study of the familial risk of 40 cancers based on a cohort of 662,515 individuals from the Utah Population Database. From 1 to 10 controls selected from the cohort were matched individually on gender, birth year, and birthplace to each cancer case; and familial standardized incidence ratios (FSIR) were calculated for both cases and  controls. Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate relative risks and population-attributable risks (PARs) of cancer in relation to FSIR. Relative risks of cancer in first-degree through fifth-degree relatives of cases, compared with controls, were calculated using the proportional hazards methods. All analyses were adjusted for spouse affection status and Latter Day Saints church affiliation. RESULTS: Thirty-five of 40 cancers exhibited positive associations between risk and FSIR, and 21 of those associations were statistically significant. PAR estimates were strikingly high for prostate carcinoma (57%), breast carcinoma (39%), colon carcinoma (32%), lip carcinoma (31%), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (35%), and melanoma (32%). Both the proportion and the number of all cancers attributable to family history peaked at 32% in the group ages 65-84 years and remained high in the group age >/= 85 years. CONCLUSIONS: A substantial portion of cancer risk was attributable to familial factors. The patterns of familial cancer recurrence among distant relatives suggested that simple genetic mechanisms may explain much of the familiality of cancer."
2449	"Genetic anticipation in familial non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, and  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been consistently reported in the literature. However, most of these findings were based on data from families ascertained for genetic studies. Fecundity bias, right censoring bias, and secular trends can lead to erroneous conclusions regarding the presence of anticipation. Our report investigates anticipation in four lymphoproliferative cancers, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, CLL, and multiple myeloma, drawn from Swedish and Danish population-based registries. We used marginal survival methods to test for a relative difference in age at diagnosis between parents and offspring and to account for other risk factors, staggered entries, censored data, and correlations among relatives. Changes in incidence rates of lymphoproliferative tumors were accommodated in the models by using time-varying  covariates for different periods of diagnosis. Whereas no anticipation was observed for Hodgkin's lymphoma, CLL, and multiple myeloma, our initial model, which controlled for gender and country, suggested a significant difference (hazard ratio, 0.5; 95% confidence interval, 0.33-0.75) in age at diagnosis between the parents and offspring in the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma sample. However,  once we accounted for the significant change in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma incidence  over time, the statistical difference between parents and offspring disappeared (hazard ratio, 0.99; 95% confidence interval, 0.56-1.76). Our results emphasize the importance of considering secular trends when evaluating the possibility of anticipation in lymphoproliferative cancers. This is the first study to consider  the changes of incidence over time as a source of bias when evaluating anticipation in lymphoproliferative cancers."
2450	"Richter's syndrome, that is, transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia to a  large cell or immunoblastic lymphoma, occurs in up to 10% of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The onset of Richter's syndrome is characterized by worsening systemic symptoms, rapid tumor growth, and/or extranodal involvement. Median survival with conventional chemotherapy is less than 6 months. Therapy with more recent therapeutic regimens, such as hyperCVXD (fractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, liposomal daunorubicin, and dexamethasone), augmented hyperCVXD, and yttrium-90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, has not produced major  improvements in response rates or overall survival. Improvement in the outcome of patients with Richter's syndrome may be aided by a more comprehensive understanding of the pathogenesis of Richter's syndrome; therapy could then be targeted against specific abnormalities. Current data indicate that the transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia to a large-cell or immunoblastic lymphoma is associated with abnormalities in cell cycle regulation (e.g., loss of the cell cycle inhibitors p16(INK4a) and p27(KIP1) ) and DNA repair (e.g., mutations and/or deletions of the p53, ATM, and p14(ARF) genes and epigenetic silencing of the MLH1 gene). However, the critical event leading to transformation is unclear. Given the poor prognosis of patients with Richter's syndrome, every effort should be made to enroll these patients into clinical trials evaluating novel agents with the appropriate correlative studies."
2451	"This paper describes extensive research on the activity of more of 100 cytotoxic  compounds containing an oxygenated ring in their structure and isolated from natural plants or prepared by semisynthesis or synthesis from available intermediates. Anticancer drugs have been classified according to the chemical structure of the natural products that are considered to lead the series. The origin and mechanism of action involved in each case have been considered. This new family of natural, semisynthetic and synthetic products includes compounds with interesting antitumor activity such as podophyllotoxin derivatives, NK-611 (15), TOP-53 (16), NPF (24) and Tafluposide (28); camptothecin analogs such as 45 with a considerable cytotoxicity against beta-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and 52 (new piperazinyl-CPT analog). New dioxygenated ellipticine analogs  showed more activity and stability than the natural pattern when the structure incorporated a lactone function instead of the pyridine ring. In the acridine series the new tetracyclic derivatives 75 and 76 containing ethylenedioxy groups  at the 2- and 3-positions of the acridine system exhibited the same activity as m-AMSA in vivo against murine P-388 leukemia. Other isolated compounds containing a dioxygenated ring in their structure such as 100 and 101 showed antitumor activities related to kinase inhibition, and are attractive candidates for development of new synthetic antitumor agents."
2452	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common chronic leukemia in Western countries. The disease has an extremely variable clinical course, and several prognostic features have been identified to assess individual risk. The configuration of the immunoglobulin variable heavy-chain gene (IgV(H)) is a strong predictor of the outcome. CLL patients with unmutated IgV(H) status have an aggressive clinical course and a short survival. Unfortunately, analysis of IgV(H) gene configuration is not available in most clinical laboratories. A small number of genes are differentially expressed between unmutated IgV(H) and mutated IgV(H) clinical forms of CLL. One of these genes is ZAP-70, which is detected in  leukemic cells from patients with the unmutated IgV(H) form of CLL. Flow cytometry presents advantages over other methods to detect ZAP-70, and its quantification by flow cytometry has proved its predictive value. This unit focuses on protocols to quantify ZAP-70 by flow cytometry in CLL."
2453	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clinically heterogeneous disease characterized by accumulation of malignant CD5+ B cells. Multiple molecular events likely contribute to malignant transformation; no single genetic abnormality or event has been shown to be responsible for development of the disease. Significant advances have recently been made towards understanding the genetic and molecular basis for the etiology and clinical course of CLL. Our current understanding is only now bringing us to the point where we can use this  information in management and in developing new therapies for patients with CLL.  Familial clustering of CLL cases is not uncommon and implicates a genetic basis for the development of the disease in some individuals. Potential interventions in this instance could employ strategies of gene transfer or gene therapy to correct genetic defects or strategies of chemoprevention, none of which is currently under investigation. Greater potential for therapeutic intervention rests with targeting molecular aberrations and altered gene expression in leukemia cells, for example, over expression of the anti-apoptotic proteins of the Bcl-2 family. CLL follows a variable clinical course, with some patients not  needing treatment for many years and responding to therapy completely and repeatedly. Other patients have rapidly progressive disease that is refractory to currently available agents and they quickly succumb to their disease. One major recent advance has been the identification of molecular and genetic prognostic factors that can be used in early-stage patients to identify those likely to rapidly progress. This affords the opportunity to tailor management for patients  based on the predictable aggressiveness of their disease. Molecular and genetic findings are increasingly influencing management decisions in CLL. Bone marrow transplantation may be considered for a patient with unfavorable prognostic features earlier than for a patient with favorable features and same clinical stage of disease. It is likely that these genetic and molecular-based factors will be targets of new treatment modalities that fundamentally change the management of this disease. In this review we detail the current understanding of the genetics and molecular biology of CLL and introduce potentials for therapeutic intervention."
2454	"The tumor microenvironment is essential for tumor cell proliferation, angiogenesis, invasion, and metastasis by providing survival signals and a sanctuary site for tumor cells, by secretion of growth factors, pro-angiogenesis  factors and direct adhesion molecule interactions. Our knowledge of microenvironment is only now beginning to unfold. In this review, the morphological and molecular characteristics of microenvironment in various hematological malignancies including acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid  leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and multiple myeloma are summarized and the molecular mechanisms of microenvironment  contributing to leukemogenesis are elucidated. We also aim to discuss the encouraging preclinical and clinical trials for treatment of hematological malignancies by targeting the tumor microenvironment. Further understanding of the signal transduction pathways between tumor cells and microenvironment will lead to the development of novel targeted therapeutic agents and more effective combination of current drugs for fighting hematological malignancies."
2455	"Deletions of 11q in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are usually associated with progressive disease and poor prognosis. A novel translocation within the previously identified 11q minimal region has been defined in a patient with CLL.  The breakpoint is between genes POU2AF1 and BTG4. POU2AF1 is a B-cell-specific transcriptional coactivator, and BTG4 is a member of the BTG family of negative regulators of the cell cycle, making both of them good candidate genes for the pathogenesis of 11q- CLL. POU2AF1 was observed to be differentially expressed in  the cells of patients with CLL compared to its expression in normal B cells in the absence of mutations. This may reflect ongoing stimulation and active accessory signaling in CLL cells. BTG4 could contribute to CLL pathogenesis following inactivation by haploinsufficiency."
2457	"BACKGROUND: Although many B-cell chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (BCLPDs) including B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) have characteristic clinical and biological features, the overlapping morphologic and immunophenotypic profiles of various BCLPDs, is still the main problem. AIM: Our aim was to evaluate the usefulness of CD45 expression in the immunological classification of BCLPDs. SETTING AND DESIGN: A prospective study was set in a university hospital to investigate the CD45 intensity, particularly in B-CLL. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expression of CD45 in 37 patients with BCLPD including typical B-CLL (Group I), atypical B-CLL and CLL/PLL (II), and hairy cell leukemia (HCL), B-prolymphocytic leukemia (B-PLL), and B-non Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) as non-CLL BCLPDs (III) and in eight healthy age matched controls (IV) was quantitatively compared by flow cytometric CD45/RALS gating strategy. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: The mean, median, and peak channel scores of CD45 obtained  for the four groups were compared using one-way analysis of variance test. A P value RESULTS: Lower CD45 density is associated highly with typical CLL and differences between typical CLL and other groups were significant (P< 0.001, 0.001, and 0.001). Non-CLL cases had significantly brighter CD45 expression than atypical CLL (P=0.014). No differences were found between normal lymphocytes and non-CLL BCLPD cases. CONCLUSIONS: CD45 is a useful marker, to discriminate the typical CLL from the non-CLL BCLPD and from atypical CLL."
2460	"Few reports on the successful treatment of T-cell large granular lymphocyte (LGL) leukemia with the humanized anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab are emerging in the literature. The expression of CD52 by LGLs has not been previously investigated. Using semi-quantitative 2- and 3-color flow cytometry, we documented the expression of CD52 in 100% of abnormal cells in T-cell LGL leukemia (n = 11) and natural killer (NK) cell LGL leukemia (n = 2), and showed no significant difference in CD52 expression between T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) and T-cell LGL leukemia. Higher CD52 expression has been noted in  responders to alemtuzumab in T-cell PLL and in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a B-cell disorder. The strong and consistent expression of CD52 shown here highlights the potential role of alemtuzumab in the treatment of refractory T-cell LGL leukemia and possibly aggressive NK cell leukemia."
2461	"Chromosomal abnormalities in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) have been shown to correlate with prognosis. Little is known about the relationship between chromosomal abnormalities and biological behavior of B-CLL cells in vitro. The present study was designed to explore the impact of chromosomal abnormalities determined by interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)  on the in vitro survival and immunogenicity of B-CLL. Considerable heterogeneity  was noted in the in vitro survival and expression of costimulatory, adhesion, and antigen-presenting molecules by B-CLL cells. Spontaneous apoptosis of B-CLL cells in vitro was significantly lower in samples with good prognosis cytogenetics when compared to samples with poor prognosis cytogenetics. In contrast, B-CLL cells from samples with good prognosis cytogenetics exhibited higher basal expression of molecules involved in costimulation, cellular adhesion, and antigen presentation, and induced significantly more T-cell proliferation in mixed lymphocyte cultures. We conclude that chromosomal aberrations of B-CLL cells correlate with the in vitro biological behavior of B-CLL. Our data indicate that  good prognosis cytogenetics correlates with less spontaneous apoptosis but greater in vitro immunogenicity. These findings could have significant implications on the design of future therapeutic approaches in patients with CLL, and the likelihood of response based on cytogenetics."
2462	"Prognostic predictions in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) at early clinical stage are based on biological disease parameters, such as ZAP-70 and CD38 protein levels, genomic aberrations as well as immunoglobulin variable heavy chain gene (IgV(H)) mutation status. In the current study, ZAP-70 and CD38 expressions were examined by flow cytometry in 252 patients with B-CLL. Cytoplasmic ZAP-70 expression in more than 20% (ZAP-70(+)) and surface CD38 expression on more than 30% (CD38(+)) of B-CLL cells were associated with an unfavorable clinical course. The levels of ZAP-70 and CD38 did not change over time in the majority of patients where sequential samples were available for analysis. Combined analysis of ZAP-70 and CD38 yielded discordant results in 73 patients (29.0%), whereas 120 patients (47.6%) were concordantly negative and 59  patients (23.4%) were concordantly positive for ZAP-70 and CD38 expression. Median treatment-free survival times in patients whose leukemic cells were ZAP-70(+)CD38(+) was 30 months as compared to 130 months in patients with a ZAP-70(-)CD38(-) status. In patients with discordant ZAP-70/CD38 results, the median treatment-free survival time was 43 months. Thus, ZAP-70 and CD38 expression analyses provided complementary prognostic information identifying three patient subgroups with good, intermediate and poor prognosis. Over-representation of high-risk genomic aberrations such as 17p deletion or 11q  deletion and distribution of the IgV(H) mutation status in B-CLL discordant for ZAP-70/CD38 pointed toward a distinct biologic background of the observed disease subgroups. This finding was also supported by microarray-based gene expression profiling in a subset of 35 patients. The expression of 37 genes differed significantly between the three groups defined by their expression of ZAP-70 and  CD38, including genes that are involved in regulation of cell survival and chemotherapy resistance."
2464	"The presence of t(4;14)(p16.3;q32.3) in multiple myeloma cells results in dysregulated expression of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3). FGFR3 acts as an oncogene to promote multiple myeloma cell proliferation and antiapoptosis. These encourage the clinical development of FGFR3-specific inhibitors. Three short hairpin RNAs (shRNA) targeting different sites of FGFR3 were selected and subsequently transfected into KMS-11, OPM-2, and NCI-H929 human myeloma cell lines, all of which are characterized by t(4;14) and FGFR3 over expression. The combination of these three shRNAs can effectively inhibit FGFR3 expression in all three cell lines. Sequential immunocytochemistry/fluorescence in situ hybridization was employed to validate that the shRNAs specifically inhibited FGFR3 expression in OPM-2 cells. Decreased expression of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 2 (BCL2) and myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1 (MCL1) proteins and increased staining of Annexin V-positive cells showed that inhibition of FGFR3 induces apoptosis. After confirming down-regulation of FGFR3  by real-time PCR, HU-133 plus 2.0 array was employed to compare the gene expression profile of shRNA-treated sample with that of the control. Besides the  down-regulation of FGFR3, expression of the antiapoptotic genes CFLAR, BCL2, MCL1, and some members of NF-kappaB family decreased, whereas expression of the proapoptotic genes CYC, BID, CASP2, and CASP6 increased. Microarray results also  revealed changes in genes previously implicated in multiple myeloma pathogenesis  (RAS, RAF, IL-6R, and VEGF), as well as others (TLR4, KLF4, and GADD45A) not previously linked to multiple myeloma. Our observations indicate that shRNAs can  specifically and effectively inhibit FGFR3 expression. This targeted approach may be worth testing in multiple myeloma patients with t(4;14) and FGFR3 overexpression in the future."
2466	"This work addresses the question whether CD38, a negative prognostic marker in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), plays a role in neoplastic B-cell growth and survival. We show that CD38+ B-CLL cells bind to murine fibroblasts transfected with the CD31 ligand. The interaction triggers an extensive remodeling of the B-CLL membrane, with relocalization of BCR/CD19 to the CD38/CD31 contact areas, and it also increases cell survival and proliferation. A second event is the up-modulation of the survival receptor CD100, restricted to proliferating cells, and a concomitant decrease of CD72 (low-affinity CD100 ligand and negative regulator of immune responses). The most efficient signals are delivered through sequential interactions between CD38/CD31 and CD100/plexin-B1 (high-affinity CD100 ligand), as inferred by coculture experiments using specific transfectants and blocking monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). The finding that nurselike cells from B-CLL patients express CD31 and plexin-B1, which deliver growth and survival signals to CD38+/CD100+ B-CLL cells, further confirms the model proposed. These findings show that a set of normal receptors and ligands ruling physiologic signaling pathways in B lymphocytes becomes detrimental when expressed in the context of B-CLL cells, ultimately leading to the generation of a tumor reservoir."
2467	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells become sensitive to Fas (CD95)-mediated apoptosis 3 to 5 days after CD40 ligation. However, CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) can kill CLL B cells via a Fas-ligand (CD178)-dependent process within 24 hours after CD40 cross-linking, when ligation of CD95 alone is insufficient to induce apoptosis. In addition to CD95, CD40-activated CLL cells also express DR5, a receptor for tumor-necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) that is expressed by CD4+ CTL. In addition, CD40 ligation in vitro and in vivo induces CLL cells to express the proapoptotic protein, BH3 interacting domain death agonist (Bid), which can facilitate crosstalk between mitochondrial-dependent, apoptosis-inducing pathways and death receptors, such as death receptor 5 (DR5). To evaluate whether ligation of CD95 and/or DR5 can induce apoptosis of CD40-activated CLL cells, we generated artificial cytotoxic effector cells that express both human TRAIL and CD178 (Chinese hamster ovary [CHO]-CD178/TRAIL) or only TRAIL (CHO-TRAIL) or CD178 (CHO-CD178). CHO-CD178/TRAIL cells were significantly more effective in killing CD40-activated CLL cells than either CHO-TRAIL or CHO-CD178 and, unlike the latter, could kill CLL cells 24 hours after CD40 ligation. We conclude that CD40  ligation induces CLL cells to express the proapoptotic molecule Bid and the death receptors CD95 and DR5, the latter of which can act synergistically to induce caspase-dependent apoptosis of CD40-activated CLL B cells."
2468	"Establishment of cell lines capable of killing leukemia cells, in the absence of  alloreactivity against normal host cells, represents a most desirable goal in bone marrow transplantation (BMT) and cancer immunotherapy. By using a human -->  mouse chimeric model, we demonstrate that allogeneic anti-third-party cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) depleted of alloreactivity are endowed with a potent anti-B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) reactivity. Likewise, CTL preparations generated from autologous T cells of the same patients with B-CLL exhibited comparable leukemia eradication, suggesting that the reactivity of allogeneic anti-third-party CTLs is not mediated by residual antihost clones. This specificity was also exhibited in vitro, and annexin staining revealed that  B-CLL killing is mediated by apoptosis. While the CTLs killing of third-party cells could be blocked by anti-CD3 antibody, the lysis of the B-CLL cells was not inhibited by this antibody, suggesting a T-cell receptor (TCR)-independent cytotoxicity. The role of cell contact leading to apoptosis of B-CLL cells is shown in transwell plates and by anti-lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1)-blocking antibody. Up-regulation of CD54 and the subsequent apoptosis of  B-CLL cells depend on the initial LFA-1/ICAM-1 (intercellular adhesion molecule 1) interaction. Taken together, these results suggest that allogeneic or autologous host nonreactive anti-third-party CTLs may represent a new therapeutic approach for patients with B-CLL."
2469	"We studied the clinicopathologic, immunophenotypic, and cytogenetic features of 26 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) associated with serum IgM paraprotein. The study group (16 men; 10 women; median age, 64 years; range, 40-82 years) represents approximately 2.5% of CLL/SLL cases at our institution. The paraprotein level ranged from 1 to 14 g/L (median, 4 g/L). Neoplasms in bone marrow were composed of small round lymphocytes arranged in nodular (n = 6), diffuse (n = 5), interstitial (n = 5), or mixed (n = 10) patterns. All cases were positive for monotypic surface immunoglobulin light chain, IgM/IgD, CD5, CD19, CD20, and CD23. CD11c (14/20 [70%]), CD79b (11/19 [58%]), FMC-7 (11/26 [42%]), CD22 (8/20 [40%]), and ZAP-70 (6/19 [32%]) were expressed in subsets of cases. Of 17 bone marrow specimens assessed by conventional cytogenetics, 6 were abnormal and 11 were diploid. The overall survival of this group (median follow-up, 24 months) was not significantly different from that for an age-, sex-and stage-matched group of 52  CLL/SLL patients without IgM paraprotein (P = .60). We conclude that CLL/SLL cases with serum IgM paraprotein are similar to other CLL/SLL cases in their clinicopathologic and immunophenotypic features."
2470	"Because of marrow fibrosis, bone marrow aspirations are often nonconclusive in patients with hairy cell leukemia (HCL). Therefore, histologic examination is important in HCL but often difficult in cases with low numbers of tumor cells. A  combined immunohistochemical positivity for DBA.44 and tartrate-resistant phosphatase was previously found in 100% of HCL and suggested to be specific for  this diagnosis. To further assess the diagnostic specificity and sensitivity of this immunohistochemical approach in a higher number of cases, we analyzed 56 HCLs and lymphoma tissue microarrays, including 840 cases of the most frequent non-Hodgkin lymphomas. All HCLs showed combined positivity for these two proteins (100% sensitivity). Both antibodies were often positive in other lymphoma types.  DBA.44 reactivity was especially frequent in follicular lymphomas (46%), whereas  tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) expression was often seen in mantle cell lymphomas (57%), primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphomas (54%), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (41%). A combined DBA.44/TRAP positivity was seen in only 3% of non-HCL non-Hodgkin lymphomas, including cases of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, follicular lymphomas, chronic  lymphatic leukemia/small lymphocytic leukemias, and mantle cell lymphomas. Overall, these data confirm the utility of combined immunohistochemical DBA.44/TRAP expression analysis in confirming the diagnosis of HCL. However, combined positivity for these markers is highly sensitive but not absolutely specific for HCL."
2472	"Low levels of B-cell-receptor (BCR) expression are the hallmark of tumoral B lymphocytes in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). These cells also respond inadequately to stimulation through the BCR. This receptor consists of a  surface immunoglobulin associated with a CD79a/CD79b heterodimer. We previously showed that the intracellular synthesis of BCR components, from transcription onward, is normal. Here, we investigated the glycosylation status and cellular localization of mu, CD79a, and CD79b chains in 10 CLL patients differing in surface immunoglobulin M (IgM) expression. We reported a severe impairment of the glycosylation and folding of mu and CD79a. These defects were associated with the retention of both chains in the endoplasmic reticulum and lower levels of surface IgM expression. In contrast, no clear impairment of glycosylation and folding was observed for CD79b. No sequence defects were identified for BCR components and for the chaperone proteins involved in BCR folding processes. These data show, for the first time, that lower levels of BCR surface expression observed in CLL are accounted for by an impaired glycosylation and folding of the mu and CD79a chains."
2473	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common adult leukemia. Prognosis is related to clinical staging and cytogenetic findings. Conventional cytogenetic analysis of CLL reveals abnormalities in approximately one third of patients. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is analytically more sensitive than conventional cytogenetics for specific chromosomal abnormalities. To evaluate the usefulness of FISH in CLL, a study of 100 CLL patients comparing conventional cytogenetics and a commercially available multiprobe FISH kit was undertaken. One hundred consecutive CLL patients (67 males, 33 females) were studied. The male-female patient ratio was approximately 2.0 to 1. Twenty-eight percent (28/98) of patients had abnormal karyotypes by conventional cytogenetics (one patient had no specimen for conventional cytogenetics and one had an unanalyzable karyotype), and of those 19/100 (19%) had more than one chromosomal abnormality.  Sixty-four percent (64/100) of the patients were positive for at least one abnormality by the FISH probes used. The following abnormalities were noted with  FISH: 11q22 ATM, 23/100 (23%); trisomy 12, 11/100 (11%); 13q14.3, 40/100 (40%); 13q34.3, 4/100 (4%); 17p13.1, 12/100 (12%). Conventional karyotypes revealed 2 patients with abnormalities of chromosome 6 (which FISH did not address); 11 with abnormalities of 11 or 11q; 6 with trisomy 12; and 4 with abnormalities of 17. Aberrations of 11q and 17p are reported to have a poor prognosis in CLL. FISH can identify abnormalities missed with conventional cytogenetics and is helpful in diagnosis, prognosis, and evaluation of therapy for CLL. Additional chromosomal changes are identified with conventional cytogenetics that are not addressed by the multiprobe FISH kit."
2474	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The immunoglobulin VH gene mutation status is a strong prognostic indicator in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), since unmutated VH genes are correlated with short survival. However, the traditional cut-off level dividing mutated and unmutated cases, i.e. more or less than 2% mutations, has been questioned and other cut-offs have been suggested. We investigated whether an alternative cut-off should be applied and the relation of mutational status to another prognostic marker, Binet staging. DESIGN AND METHODS: VH gene mutation status was assessed in 332 CLL cases by polymerase chain reaction amplification and nucleotide sequencing and was further correlated with overall survival using different VH mutation cut-offs (1-7%) and  Binet stage. RESULTS: After testing different mutation borders, the 2% cut-off remained the best discriminative level for determining prognosis. Interestingly, prognostic stratification was improved by combining the information on VH gene mutation status with that of Binet stage: unmutated cases (all stages, n=151, mutated cases with stage A (n=77), and mutated cases with stage B or C (n=37) had a median survival of 82, 179 and 74 months, respectively. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: CLL cases displaying mutated VH genes with Binet  stage B or C had a survival similar to that of unmutated cases and significantly  shorter than that of mutated stage A CLL. Our result reveals clinical heterogeneity within the VH mutated CLL group by inclusion of Binet stage data, a finding which is of importance when considering surrogate marker(s) for VH mutation status."
2476	"To facilitate the development of a prognostic model for early B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the Gruppo Italiano Malattie EMatologiche Maligne dell'Adulto (GIMEMA) proposes its multi-institutional effort as a working model.  In total, 1138 newly diagnosed Binet stage A patients managed over the last 10 years outside the setting of clinical trials according to a "wait and see" policy form the basis of the present study aimed at investigating prognostic variables affecting disease progression, a surrogate endpoint for overall survival. A 3-stage risk system, simply obtained by summing the variables that proved significant in the multivariate analysis (i.e. short lymphocyte doubling time, advanced Rai substage, high peripheral blood lymphocytosis), is proposed. Clear-cut differences in the 10 year progression-free survival (PFS) were observed among patients scoring 0 (low risk), 1 (intermediate risk), 2-3 (high risk): 67.8, 41.0 and 24.8%, respectively (P<0.0001). The results of the Medical  Research Council (MRC) suggesting a better clinical outcome for females prompted  us to verify such a gender-related difference within our prognostic categories. Because changes in PFS only reflected gender for patients scoring 0 (P=0.04), the following prognostic subgroups are proposed: (1) females scoring 0; (2) males scoring 0; (3) patients scoring 1-3 whatever gender (10 year PFS: 76.2, 61.4 and  37.8%; P<0.00001). Our long-term database provides an adequate patient sample to  generate a generalized risk stratification model based on clinical data. The indolent clinical outcome of women with early CLL is also supported by the higher frequency of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IgVH) mutational status and lower proportion of 17p and 11q deletions found in such a patient subset in the MRC CLL4 trial."
2477	"Leukemic meningitis is a rare manifestation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and typically occurs in advanced stages. We report the case of a 71-year-old male in whom Binet A, Rai 1 stage CLL was diagnosed in June 2002. The stage called for a "watch and wait" strategy. Six months later the patient presented with paraparesis. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine revealed no abnormalities. Lumbar puncture disclosed xanthochromic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)  with 1003 cells/microl, 95% atypical lymphocytes. Flow cytometry confirmed typical features of CLL. Intrathecal injections of methotrexate, cytosine arabinoside and corticosteroids did not substantially reduce the CSF cell count and failed to improve the neurological symptoms. Two weeks later the patient developed a pulmonary embolism complicated by fatal secondary pneumonia. Leukemic meningitis is a rare manifestation of CLL, especially in early stages. Selective  spinal paraparesis as the first symptom of meningitis in CLL is even rarer and has been reported only once."
2478	"Transformation of CLL into a large cell lymphoma has an incidence of 3-5%. We have studied 101 cases of CLL treated with fludarabine over a 10-year period (1990-2000) and observed a 12% incidence of transformation. In six of 12 patients, transformation was documented within 4 months following treatment with  fludarabine. Pathological material, available in nine cases, was investigated for latent EBV by staining for LMP-1 by immunohistochemistry and EBERs-1 and 2 by in  situ hybridisation. LMP-1 and EBERs were demonstrated in three of the nine samples. In two cases there was a different pattern of immunoglobulin gene rearrangement in the transformed cells assessed by PCR (FR3 fragment) compared to the original CLL clone. One of these two cases showed evidence of latent EBV. The other seven cases, of which two were EBV positive, showed identical pattern of Ig gene rearrangement in both the CLL and the transformed cells. We suggest that the relatively high incidence of transformation in this series may be due to immunosuppression mainly related to fludarabine, although other agents and prior  therapies may have also contributed."
2480	"Clinical treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is limited by the progressive drug resistance and nonselectivity of most drugs towards malignant cells. Depsipeptides are present in certain bacteria and display potent antitumor activity. We have studied the effect of the novel cyclodepsipeptide AT514 (serratamolide) from Serratia marcescens on B-CLL cell viability. AT514 induced apoptosis of B-CLL cells from the 21 patients studied, as confirmed by Annexin-V binding and nuclei condensation, with an average IC50 of 13 microM. AT514 was effective in those B-CLL cases resistant to fludarabine, but had no effect on normal PBL. AT514 preferentially activated the intrinsic apoptotic pathway, as evidenced by loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, release of cytochrome c and activation of caspase-9 and -3, but not of caspase-8. Importantly, AT514 interfered with phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and protein kinase C survival signals since it increased the apoptotic effect of LY294002 and Bisl inhibitors, and induced Akt dephosphorylation at Ser 473. AT514 also decreased NF-kappaB activity by dramatically reducing the levels of p65 in B-CLL. This was confirmed on functional assays using NF-kappaB-luc-transfected Raji cells and transgenic mice. Our results establish that AT514 induces apoptosis of  primary B-CLL cells and could be useful for clinical treatment of this malignancy."
2481	"Partial retraction in     Leukemia. 2010 Apr;24(4):908."
2482	"The human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 (hENT1) is a member of the equilibrative nucleoside transporter family that mediates cellular entry of gemcitabine, cytarabine, and fludarabine. Deficiency in hENT1 confers resistance  to toxicity of these drugs in a variety of model systems. Since some nucleoside analogs have a role in treating patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), this  study was undertaken to assess hENT1 abundance in NHL. A total of 115 cases of NHL of various subtypes and 15 reactive lymph nodes were evaluated for the presence of hENT1 protein using immunohistochemistry applied to frozen tissues. Samples were considered positive when >or=50% of neoplastic cells showed immunostaining. In reactive lymph nodes, hENT1 was confined to the germinal centers, whereas mantle zone B-cells and interfollicular T-cells were negative. In NHL, a relatively high frequency of hENT1 positivity was found in Burkitt lymphoma/leukemia (63%), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLCL; 45%), and follicular lymphoma (40%). In DLCL, 26% of cases were positive for CD10, and CD10-positive DLCL cases were more likely to be hENT1 positive than CD10-negative cases (P=0.025). A lower frequency of hENT1 positivity was found in mantle cell lymphoma (13%) and peripheral T-cell lymphomas (37%). All marginal zone lymphomas (n=5), chronic lymphocytic leukemia small lymphocytic lymphomas (n=10), plasmacytoma (n=3), acute lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia, and anaplastic large-cell lymphomas (n=5) were negative. In conclusion, hENT1 was most frequently found in benign and malignant follicular center cells. Prospective studies to assess the value of hENT1 immunostaining in predicting resistance to nucleoside chemotherapy for NHL are warranted."
2483	"This study found that oridonin, a natural diterpenoid purified from Rabdosia rubescens, inhibited growth of multiple myeloma (MM; U266, RPMI8226), acute lymphoblastic T-cell leukemia (Jurkat), and adult T-cell leukemia (MT-1) cells with an effective dose that inhibited 50% of target cells (ED50) ranging from 0.75 to 2.7 microg/mL. Terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling staining showed that oridonin caused apoptosis of MT-1 cells in a time-dependent manner. We explored effects of oridonin on antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members and found that it down-regulated levels of Mcl-1 and BCL-x(L), but not Bcl-2 protein, in both MT-1 and RPMI8226 cells. Further studies found that oridonin inhibited nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) DNA-binding activity in these cells as measured by luciferase reporter gene, ELISA-based, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Oridonin also blocked tumor necrosis factor-alpha- and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated NF-kappa B activity in Jurkat cells as well as RAW264.7 murine macrophages. Of note, oridonin decreased survival of freshly isolated adult T-cell leukemia (three samples), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (one sample), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (one sample), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (three samples), and MM (four samples) cells from patients in association with inhibition of NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity. On the other hand, oridonin did not affect survival of normal lymphoid cells from healthy volunteers. Taken together, oridonin might be useful as adjunctive therapy for individuals with lymphoid malignancies, including the lethal disease adult T-cell leukemia."
2484	"Immunostimulatory CpG-containing oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG ODN) have a number of effects on B cells, including upregulation of immunogenic molecules, and, therefore, appear attractive as potential components of immunotherapy for B cell  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Previous in vitro studies investigating the effect of CpG ODN on B-CLL cells used serum-low conditions and did not account for the longer-half life of CpG ODN in vitro. The present study was designed to explore how the presence of serum and exposure time affect CpG ODN-mediated changes on B-CLL cells. The optimal concentration for CpG ODN-mediated effects in the presence of 100% serum or plasma was higher (10-20 microg/ml) than for serum-low conditions. Maximal CpG ODN-mediated effects required the presence of ODN for no longer than 3 hours. The inhibition of CpG ODN-mediated effects by serum correlated with lower uptake of ODN into B-CLL cells in the presence of serum. A threshold effect on biologic response was observed, with a given amount  of ODN internalized, resulting in phenotypic changes. In conclusion, systemic short-term application of CpG ODN appears to be sufficient to induce phenotypic changes, but higher doses of CpG ODN than previously thought may be necessary because of inhibition of their uptake by serum."
2485	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an abundant class of approximately 22 nucleotide non-coding RNAs and play important regulatory roles in animal and plant development at the post-transcriptional level. Many miRNAs cloned from mouse bone marrow cells are differentially regulated in various hematopoietic lineages, suggesting that they might influence hematopoietic lineage differentiation. miR-181, a miRNA specifically expressed in B cells within mouse bone marrow, promotes B-cell differentiation when expressed in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells. Some human miRNAs are linked to leukemias: the miR-15a/miR-16 locus is frequently deleted or down-regulated in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic  leukemia and miR-142 is at a translocation site found in a case of aggressive B-cell leukemia. Collectively, these results indicate that miRNAs may be important regulators of mammalian hematopoiesis. Here, we provide background on the biogenesis and function of miRNAs and discuss how miRNA-mediated post-transcriptional regulation may influence the development and function of blood cells."
2486	"Earlier we had reported a guanine to adenosine substitution at position 125 (G125A) in the BAX promoter, and its association with higher stage of the disease and failure to achieve complete response to treatment in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that G125A leads to a reduction in the transcription of the BAX gene and that this is  a direct cause of altered BAX mRNA and protein expression. In lymphocytes of CLL  patients, BAX mRNA expression was determined by RNase protection assay and Bax protein was detected by immunoblotting. The presence of G125A in the BAX promoter was associated with lower BAX mRNA (P=0.004) and protein (P=0.024) levels. In transient expression assays using wild-type and mutant BAX promoter sequences linked to Luciferase as a reporter, the G125A polymorphism reduced expression of  the BAX promoter by 2.6-fold. These studies suggest a mechanism for the biological effect of the G125A."
2487	"Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) is key to initiating somatic hypermutation (SHM) and class switch recombination (CSR), but its mode of action  and regulation remains unclear. Since Pax-5 and Id-2 transcription factors play an opposing role in AID regulation, we have studied the expression of Pax-5, Id-2, and prdm-1 genes in 54 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells. In 21 cases, presence of AID is constantly associated with high expression of the complete form of the Pax-5 gene (Pax-5a) and lower expression of the Id-2 and prdm-1 transcripts. In 33 cases, the absence of AID expression and CSR is associated with a reduction of Pax-5a and the appearance of a spliced form with a deletion in exon 8 (Pax-5/Delta-Ex8). Stimulation with CD40L+interleukin 4 (IL-4) induces CSR, the presence of AID transcripts, up-regulation of Pax-5a and down-regulation of Pax-5/Delta-Ex8, and Id-2 and prdm-1 transcripts. Pax-5a and Pax-5/Delta-Ex8 are translated into 2 isoforms of the B-cell-specific activator protein (BSAP) and both are able to bind the AID-promoter region. Overall, these  results suggest that Pax-5/Delta-Ex8 could play an important role in the control  of its own transcription and indirectly in AID expression and CSR."
2488	"Clinical benefits from monoclonal antibody therapy for B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) have increased interest in developing additional immunotherapies for the disease. CD40 ligand is an accessory signal for T-cell activation and can overcome T-cell anergy. The OX40-OX40 ligand pathway is involved in the subsequent expansion of memory antigen-specific T cells. We expressed both CD40L  and OX40L on B-CLL cells by exploiting the phenomenon of molecular transfer from  fibroblasts overexpressing these ligands. We analyzed the effects of the modified B-CLL cells on the number, phenotype, and cytotoxic function of autologous T cells in 7 B-CLL patients. Transfer of CD40L and OX40L was observed in all and was followed by the up-regulation of B7-1 and B7-2. The culture of CD40L/OX40L-expressing B-CLL cells with autologous T cells generated CD4+/CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell lines, which secreted interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and granzyme-B/perforin in response to autologous, but not to allogeneic, B-CLL cells or to autologous T-cell blasts. CD40L or OX40L alone was insufficient to expand tumor-reactive T cells. The combination of CD40L and OX40L on B-CLL cells may allow the generation of therapeutic immune responses to B-CLL, either by active immunization with modified tumor cells or by adoptive immunotherapy with tumor-reactive autologous T cells."
2489	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is an incurable adult leukemia characterized by disrupted apoptosis. OSU03012 is a bioavailable third-generation celecoxib derivative devoid of cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitory activity that potently induces apoptosis in prostate cancer cell lines and is being developed as an anticancer therapy in the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Rapid Access to Intervention Development (RAID) program. We assessed the ability of OSU03012 to induce apoptosis in primary CLL cells and the mechanism by which this occurs. The LC50 (lethal concentration 50%) of OSU03012 at 24 hours was 7.1 microM, and this decreased to 5.5 microM at 72 hours. Additionally, we have demonstrated that OSU03012 mediates apoptosis by activation of the intrinsic, mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis but also activates alternative cell death pathways that are caspase  independent. The early activation of both caspase-dependent and -independent pathways of apoptosis is novel to OSU03012 and suggests it has great potential promise for the treatment of CLL. Moreover, unlike the great majority of therapeutic agents used to treat leukemia or other forms of cancer, OSU03012 induces cell death entirely independent of bcl-2 expression. Overall, these data  provide justification for further preclinical development of OSU03012 as a potential therapeutic agent for CLL."
2490	"The alpha-helical amphipathic peptide D-(KLAKLAK)2 is toxic to eukaryotic cells if internalized by a suitable targeting mechanism. We have targeted this peptide  to malignant hemopoietic cells via conjugation to monoclonal antibodies, which recognize lineage-specific cell surface molecules. An anti-CD19/peptide conjugate efficiently killed 3/3 B lymphoid lines. However, an anti-CD33/peptide conjugate  was cytotoxic to only one of three CD33-positive myeloid leukemia lines. The IC50 towards susceptible lines were in the low nanomolar range. Conjugates were highly selective and did not kill cells that did not express the appropriate cell surface cognate of the antibody moiety. Anti-CD19/peptide conjugates efficiently  killed cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia but anti-CD33/peptide reagents were less effective against fresh acute myeloid leukemia cells. We therefore suggest that amphipathic peptides may be of value as targeted therapeutic agents for the treatment of a subset of hematologic malignancies."
2491	"On the basis of responses to surface IgM (sIgM) cross-linking, B cells from 41 patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia were categorized as 15 nonresponders (group I) and 26 responders (group II). The latter cases were subclassified as those seven where proliferation was induced (subgroup IIa) and the remaining 19 in whom apoptosis occurred (subgroup IIa). Signal disruption in group I was confirmed by the absence of Ca2+ mobilization. Activation of PI3K was constitutive in subgroup IIa, but not in subgroup IIb, and that of Akt induced by anti-mu in subgroup IIa, but not in subgroup IIb. Among the MAPK, ERK was more highly activated relative to p38 in subgroup IIa, whereas activation of p38 predominated over that of ERK in subgroup IIb. For subgroup IIb cells, based on tyrosine phosphorylation and translocation into lipid rafts, sIgM signaling was shown to be enhanced by Zap70. The different consequences of signaling through sIgM were associated with biological prognosis indicators. These included high levels of CD38, lack of mutations in the IgVH chain genes, preferential usage of  full-length CD79b, and severe clinical stage. Thus, modification of sIgM-induced  signaling could be a therapeutic approach."
2492	"Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) protects epithelial and fibroblast cell lines from apoptosis. In B-cells, LPA acts as a growth factor promoting cell proliferation.  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by the accumulation of CD19+/CD5+ B-lymphocytes primarily through a block in apoptosis. The mechanisms underlying this defect are not fully understood. We investigated whether LPA could be a survival factor in CLL cells. Herein, we demonstrate that LPA protects B-cell lines BJAB and I-83 and primary CLL cells but not normal B-cells from fludarabine- and etoposide-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, LPA prevented spontaneous apoptosis in primary CLL cells. The LPA1 expression was found to be increased in primary CLL cells compared with normal B-cells correlating with LPA  prevention of apoptosis. Treatment of primary CLL cells with the LPA receptor antagonist, diacylglycerol pyrophosphate, reverses the protective effect of LPA against apoptosis, and down-regulation of the LPA1 by siRNA blocked LPA-mediated  protection against spontaneous apoptosis in primary CLL cells. The protective effect of LPA was inhibited by blocking activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/AKT signaling pathway. These results indicate that LPA is a survival factor in B-cell lines and primary CLL cells but not normal B-cells. Thus, drugs  targeting the LPA receptors might be an effective therapy against B-cell-derived  malignancies such as CLL."
2493	"CONTEXT: Lymph node involvement in pancreatic cancer is a predictor of poor patient long-term survival. The detection of multiple metastatic peri-pancreatic  nodes by EUS-FNA may dissuade the surgeon from undertaking a curative pancreatic  resection. CASE REPORT: We report an interesting case of a man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, who presented with the diagnostic problem of a pancreatic solid-cystic  lesion and multiple malignant-looking peri-pancreatic lymphadenopathy on EUS. EUS-FNA yielded chronic lymphocytic leukaemia involvement in the peri-pancreatic  lymph nodes and a markedly elevated CEA in the cystic fluid. The absence of adenocarcinoma involvement of the lymph nodes prompted surgery on the pancreatic  lesion with a curative intent. Pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma was diagnosed and a sub-total pancreatectomy was performed with clear resection margins. All 30 resected peri-pancreatic lymph nodes showed chronic lymphocytic leukemia involvement only. CONCLUSIONS: This case illustrates that abnormal lymphadenopathy adjacent to a primary pancreatic lesion may not necessarily be due to the latter. Systemic lymphoproliferative disease, as in this case, can masquerade as metastatic adenocarcinoma lymph nodes on EUS. EUS-FNA is useful in diagnosing lymphoproliferative disease."
2495	"Two major transcripts of lymphoid enhancer factor-1 (LEF-1) have been described.  The long isoform with b-catenin binding domain functions as a transcriptional enhancer factor. The short isoform derives from an intronic promoter and exhibits dominant negative activity. Recently, alterations of LEF-1 isoforms distribution  have been described in colon cancer. In the current study we employed a quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR method (TaqMan) to analyze expression of LEF-1 isoforms in a large cohort of human tumor (n = 304) and tumor-free control samples (n = 56). The highest expression level of LEF-1 was found in carcinoma samples whereas brain cancer samples expressed little. Expression of LEF-1 was different in distinct cancer types. For example, the mRNA level of LEF-1 was lower in testicular tumor samples compared with tumor-free control samples. Besides epithelial cancers, significant LEF-1 expression was also found in hematopoietic cells. In hematological malignancies, overall LEF-1 level was higher in lymphocytic leukemias compared with myeloid leukemias and normal hematopoiesis. However, acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphocytic leukemia showed a significantly increased fraction of the oncogenic LEF-1 compared with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and chronic myeloid leukemia. Taken together, these data suggest that LEF-1 is abundantly expressed in human tumors and the ratio of the oncogenic and the dominant negative short isoform altered not only in carcinomas but also in leukemia."
2496	"The bcl-3 gene at chromosome 19q13 encodes a member of the IkB family involved in regulating the nuclear factor kB pathway. Originally identified by its involvement in the t(14:19)(q32;q13), bcl-3 expression recently has been reported in 12% of non-Hodgkin lymphomas and 41% of Hodgkin lymphomas. Because the t(14;19) is detected most commonly in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we assessed for bcl-3 expression using immunohistochemical analysis in 72 CLL cases  with immunophenotypic and cytogenetic data. Of 72 CLL cases, 12 (17%) were bcl-3+. Expression of bcl-3 correlated with an atypical immunophenotype, defined  using the World Health Organization scoring system. Expression also correlated with trisomy 12 and chromosome 19 abnormalities but was not limited to cases with the t(14:19)(q32;q13). Although the mechanism of bcl-3 expression is unclear, these results raise the possibility that bcl-3 may be involved in the pathogenesis of this subset of tumors and could be a potential target for investigational therapies."
2497	"The aim of the study was to evaluate cellular drug resistance in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) in vitro, and compare it with that in acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) and acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). In vitro drug resistance was analyzed by the fluorometric microculture cytotoxicity assay (FMCA) in all samples from patients with leukemia sent to our laboratory between  1992 and 2001. Up to 14 standard drugs were evaluated in samples from 66 patients with B-CLL, 212 patients with AML and 80 patients with ALL. B-CLL cells were found to be more sensitive than cells from both AML and ALL to cytarabine, cladribine, fludarabine, doxorubicin, idarubicin, vincristine and cyclophosphamide (p<0.05). No difference in cellular drug resistance was found between B-CLL and ALL cells for prednisolone, whereas AML cells were more resistant (p<0.0001). In B-CLL, cells from patients who had received previous chemotherapy were more resistant to almost all tested drugs as compared to cells  from treatment-naive patients. In AML and ALL, in vitro drug resistance was not related to previous chemotherapy. For all drugs, there was a good agreement between the activity in vitro and the known clinical disease-specific activity. The study also demonstrated an acquired cellular drug resistance in B-CLL, but not in the acute leukemias."
2498	"Crohn's disease and B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) share a common link in their pathologic mechanisms. Lymphocytes in both diseases fail to undergo apoptosis and die properly. That failure is partly due to increased signaling by  tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and their respective pathologies directly follow from this apoptosis failure. Bupropion is a commonly used generic antidepressant in clinical use for over a decade, and early evidence indicates it lowers TNF levels. This paper suggests the use of bupropion in CLL to lower TNF levels, which may thereby slow CLL disease course."
2499	"Cytomorphologic testing and multiparameter flow cytometry are the mainstays in diagnosing B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, whereas fluorescence in situ hybridization that targets the translocation t(14;18)(q32;q21) often is used to identify follicular lymphoma. Therapy is highly diverse between both diseases. We describe a case with cytomorphologically and immunologically proven B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia in which t(14;18)(q32;q21) was found."
2502	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by accumulation of clonal lymphocytes resistant to apoptosis. We evaluated the ability of the investigational antileukemic agent adaphostin to induce apoptosis in CLL B cells  and synergize with fludarabine in vitro. Analysis by annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) staining revealed that the concentration of adaphostin required to induce 50% cell death (IC50) at 24 hours was 4.2 microM (range, 1.10-11.25 microM; median, 4.25 microM; n=29) for CLL isolates and more than 10 microM for B and T cells from healthy donors. Immunoblots demonstrated adaphostin induced poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage and cleavage of caspase-3 substrates, suggesting that adaphostin induces apoptosis. Adaphostin increased the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) within CLL B cells, and the  antioxidant N-acetylcysteine blocked both adaphostin-induced ROS generation and apoptosis. Adaphostin also caused a decrease in the level of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2. When adaphostin was combined with fludarabine (F-ARA-AMP), a synergistic effect on cell death was observed in all 10 CLL samples. These findings not only indicate that adaphostin induces apoptosis selectively in CLL B cells through a mechanism that involves ROS generation but also demonstrate its ability to augment the effects of fludarabine. Further preclinical development of adaphostin as a novel agent for the treatment of CLL appears warranted."
2503	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is frequently associated with autoimmune diseases directed against constituents of the blood, including hemolytic anemia (AIHA). We hypothesized that CLL cells predispose to hematologic autoimmunity by  acting as aberrant antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Initially, it was confirmed that all studied patients with AIHA secondary to CLL harbored activated helper T  (T(H)) cells specific for epitopes on the dominant red blood cell (RBC) autoantigens in primary AIHA, the Rh proteins. Rh-specific T(H) cells were also detected in a number of patients with CLL who, although they did not have AIHA, had low levels of anti-RBC antibody in their sera. Fractionation of putative APC  populations from the peripheral blood of patients by negative selection showed that CD5+ CLL cells are the most effective cell type in processing and presenting purified Rh protein to autoreactive T(H) cells. This ability was confirmed using  positively selected CD5+ CLL cells. Thus, our study provides the first evidence for malignant cells driving an autoimmune response by acting as aberrant APCs."
2505	"We reported previously that jasmonates can kill human cancer cells. Many chemotherapeutic drugs induce mitochondrial membrane permeability transition, membrane depolarization, osmotic swelling, and release of cytochrome c, involving the opening of the permeability transition pore complex (PTPC). Because jasmonates exert their cytotoxic effects independent of transcription, translation, and p53 expression, we hypothesized that these compounds may act directly on mitochondria. Mitochondrial membrane depolarization was determined by flow cytometry, and cytochrome c release by Western blotting. Mitochondria were isolated by mechanical lysis and differential centrifugation. Cytotoxicity was measured by a tetrazolium-based assay, and mitochondrial swelling by spectrophotometry. Jasmonates induced membrane depolarization and cytochrome c release in intact human cancer cell lines. Jasmonates induced swelling in mitochondria isolated from Hep 3B hepatoma cells, but not in mitochondria isolated from 3T3 nontransformed cells or from normal lymphocytes, in a PTPC-mediated manner. Methyl jasmonate induced the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria isolated from cancer cell lines in a PTPC-mediated manner, but not from mitochondria isolated from normal lymphocytes. A correlation was found between cytotoxicity of methyl jasmonate and the percentage of leukemic cells in  the blood of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Jasmonates induced membrane depolarization in CLL cells, and swelling and release of cytochrome c in mitochondria isolated from these cells. In conclusion, jasmonates act directly on mitochondria derived from cancer cells in a PTPC-mediated manner, and could therefore bypass premitochondrial apoptotic blocks. Jasmonates are promising candidates for the treatment of CLL and other types of cancer."
2506	"The efficacy of monoclonal antibody therapy is determined, at least in part, by the extent to which the target antigen is expressed. This is a complex issue in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM) as it is a disorder characterized by plasma  cell differentiation and therefore target antigen expression may differ between the B-cell and plasma cell compartments of the disease. In order to assess this in the context of alemtuzumab therapy, the authors used multiparameter flow cytometry to determine CD52 expression in the B-cells and plasma cells of patients with WM. CD52 expression was demonstrable in the B-cells of all cases, with a median of 99% of cells (range, 81%-100%) expressing the antigen compared with the isotype control (n = 47). Antigen density was very similar to that seen  in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (median mean fluorescence intensity [MFI], 1249;  range, 175-3170). Antigen expression was, however, significantly lower in the plasma cells (median MFI, 235; range, 31-1814) in all but 1 of the cases assessed (n = 21). The clinical significance of this was assessed by examining serial bone marrow samples from patients receiving alemtuzumab as part of an ongoing clinical trial. In 4 of 5 patients, alemtuzumab therapy successfully eradicated clonal B-cells from the bone marrow, but residual plasma cells remained evident in 2 of  these patients. The implications of these findings for monoclonal antibody therapy in WM are discussed."
2507	"We analyzed the clinical features and prognostic factors for transformation of immunoglobulin Mrelated disorders (IgM-RDs) to malignant lymphoproliferative disease (MLD) in 83 patients with IgM-RDs. We studied 19 patients with type I cryoglobulinemias, 56 patients with type II cryoglobulinemias, 5 patients with peripheral neuropathies (PNs), and 3 patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpuras. Fourteen patients with cryoglobulinemias presented with mild to moderate hepatomegaly with or without splenomegaly. Fourteen patients with type II cryoglobulinemias had arthralgias and/or vascular purpura (12 receiving corticosteroids), and 7 presented with PN. These latter patients and those with PNs without cryoglobulinemia were treated with steroids, cyclophosphamide, or polychemotherapy with/without plasma-exchange. Cumulative probability of evolution to MLD at 5 years was 15% (95% CI; 5%-25%). At a median of 62 months (12-195 months), 8 cases of IgM-RDs (8.4%) evolved to overt Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (n = 6), 1 case to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and 1 case to B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. At univariate analysis, male sex (P = 0.02), IgM level > or = 3 g/dL (P < 0.0001), detectable Bence Jones proteinuria (P = 0.0005), lymphocytosis (P = 0.049), and high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (P =  0.003) significantly correlated with the evolution risk. Age, blood cell counts,  b2-microglobulin level, degree of marrow lymphoplasmacytic infiltration, type of  cryoglobulinemia, and hepatitis C virus positivity did not correlate with transformation. Although IgM-RDs represent a distinct clinical entity frequently  requiring treatment in view of the IgM-related symptoms, their evolution probability and prognostic factors for malignant transformation seem to widely overlap those described for asymptomatic IgM monoclonal gammopathies."
2508	"Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) of the immunoglobulin M (IgM) class was diagnosed at our institution in 213 patients who resided in the 11 counties of southeastern Minnesota from 1960 to 1994. The median age at diagnosis was 74 years and the median concentration of serum M-protein was 1.2 g/dL. The 213 patients were monitored for 1567 person-years (median, 6.3 years),  during which 71% died. During follow-up, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 17), Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (n = 6), primary amyloidosis (n = 3), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 3) developed in 29 patients (14%). The number of patients with progression to lymphoid neoplasms was 15.9 times that expected in the general population. The cumulative probabilities of progression to one of these disorders were 10% at 5 years, 18% at 10 years, and 24% at 15 years. The overall average risks for progression were approximately 1.5% per year. Rates of  death resulting from other diseases (cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, etc.) were  31% at 5 years, 52% at 10 years, and 65% at 15 years. Multivariate analysis revealed that only the concentration of serum M-protein at diagnosis and the serum albumin value were independent predictors of progression. It was concluded  that the patients with IgM MGUS should be followed indefinitely."
2509	"Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM) is characterized by lymphoplasmacytic infiltration of bone marrow and/or other tissues and by the presence of serum monoclonal immunoglobulin M ([IgM], without cutoff limit). Differential diagnosis from other B-cell disorders (BCDs) is usually easy based on clinical, morphologic, histopathologic, immunophenotypic, and genetic features. However, all BCDs potentially produce monoclonal IgM. In this study we reviewed the medical files of 130 patients with IgM-secreting BCDs. Eighty-four patients were  diagnosed with WM, 5 with IgM-monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance  (MGUS), and 41 with other BCDs (9 with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 5 with small lymphocytic lymphoma, 14 with marginal zone lymphoma, 5 with mantle-cell lymphoma, 2 with follicular lymphoma, 2 with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, 2 with cryoglobulinemia, and 2 with low-grade lymphoma not otherwise specified). Median IgM levels were 3215 mg/dL in WM, 840 mg/dL in IgM-MGUS, and 285 mg/dL in other BCDs (5 had IgM levels > 1500 mg/dL). In 10% of non-WM BCDs, monoclonal IgM was found only when more sensitive immunofixation methods were used. Forty-four percent of patients with BCDs (splenic marginal zone lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma) had diagnoses that corresponded to that of WM. Careful diagnosis requires the concomitant evaluation of all parameters of BCDs together. Marginal zone lymphoma is the most frequently overlapping entity. Special attention should be given to mantle cell lymphoma in its atypical forms.  Research in this field should continue to further clarify the disease entities that overlap with WM. New technology such as gene-expression profile techniques may contribute to this purpose."
2512	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Many years ago it was established that prompt treatment of early stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the stage at which almost two-thirds of CLL patients present, has no benefit over a management of watching and waiting, then treating progression. However, this fact was based on  series treated ineffectually with chlorambucil, which were not stratified according to prognostic markers. DESIGN AND METHODS: The prognosis and clinical course of CLL are heterogeneous. While some patients may have a normal life expectancy without requiring treatment, others die of drug-resistant disease as early as within two years of presentation. However, unlike the situation in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, there is no standard Prognostic Index that can be used to group patients with CLL according to likely outcome or to guide treatment. RESULTS: A number of clinical and biological factors of prognostic relevance, which may add to the classical assessment provided by the staging systems, have been identified. These include clinical characteristics, such as age, gender and  performance status, and laboratory parameters reflecting the tumor burden or disease activity, such as lymphocyte count, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) increase, bone marrow infiltration pattern or lymphocyte doubling time. Recently more informative prognostic parameters have been identified: serum markers such as soluble CD23, b2-microglobulin or thymidine kinase and genetic markers of tumor cells, such as genomic aberrations, gene abnormalities (p53, ATM), the mutation status of the variable segments of the immunoglobulin heavy chain genes (IGVH) or surrogate markers for these factors, such as CD38 and ZAP-70. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: From the clinician's perspective the importance of this new knowledge is how it affects treatment. It is now possible to produce  molecular remissions even in advanced disease using combinations of purine analogs and monoclonal antibodies. Moreover, potentially curative therapeutic modalities such as autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation are becoming safer. Clinical trials of effective treatment stratified by more reliable prognostic markers are surely now warranted."
2513	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a low-grade B-lineage lymphoid malignancy,  which is often not treated until patients become symptomatic or develop signs of  rapid progression. Even in this setting, treatment is non-curative and is directed at reducing the symptoms from an increasing disease burden. Newer treatment regimens incorporating purine nucleoside analogs have increased the rate of successful remission induction in CLL patients. Recent combination chemoimmunotherapy regimens have produced frequent complete molecular remissions, and early evidence suggests this may result in an improved long-term survival. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation is the only curative therapy for CLL but is infrequently used due to the older age of most patients, although reduced intensity conditioning regimens have reduced the toxicity of allogeneic transplantation. This review will summarize recent advances in the management of  CLL, including prognostic factors, combination chemotherapy including nucleoside  analogs and monoclonal antibodies, and reduced intensity allogeneic transplant conditioning regimens."
2515	"Due to its relatively slow clinical progression, B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is classically described as a disease of accumulation rather than proliferation. However, evidence for various forms of clonal evolution suggests that B-CLL clones may be more dynamic than previously assumed. We used a nonradioactive, stable isotopic labeling method to measure B-CLL cell kinetics in vivo. Nineteen patients drank an aliquot of deuterated water (2H2O) daily for 84  days, and 2H incorporation into the deoxyribose moiety of DNA of newly divided B-CLL cells was measured by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, during and after the labeling period. Birth rates were calculated from the kinetic profiles. Death rates were defined as the difference between calculated birth and growth rates. These analyses demonstrated that the leukemic cells of each patient had definable and often substantial birth rates, varying from 0.1% to greater than 1.0% of the entire clone per day. Those patients with birth rates greater than 0.35% per day were much more likely to exhibit active or to develop progressive disease than those with lower birth rates Thus, B-CLL is not a static disease that results simply from accumulation of long-lived lymphocytes. Rather, it is a  dynamic process composed also of cells that proliferate and die, often at appreciable levels. The extent to which this turnover occurs has not been previously appreciated. A correlation between birth rates and disease activity and progression appears to exist, which may help identify patients at risk for worsening disease in advance of clinical deterioration."
2516	"PURPOSE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by the development of drug resistance. The underlying biologic and genetic reasons for this resistance are complex, but the bcl-2 gene family seems to play a critical role.  This retrospective study assessed the clinical impact of a common single nucleotide polymorphism of the pro-apoptotic bax gene in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The frequency of the novel polymorphism, G(-248)A, in the promoter region of the bax gene and bax protein expression was assessed in 203 CLL patients. The results were correlated with clinical outcome. RESULTS: The polymorphism was found in 23% of the CLL cohort and 15% of normal controls with no significant difference in allele frequency between the two groups (P = .15). It was associated with lower Bax protein expression and a shorter overall survival, especially in the treated patient group (P = .03). Furthermore, the adverse impact of the polymorphism was accentuated when comparing survival from the date of first treatment rather than diagnosis (P = .012). No significant difference in age at diagnosis, stage of disease at presentation, lymphocyte doubling time, time to first treatment, or progression-free survival were observed. CONCLUSION: The presence of this single nucleotide polymorphism in CLL critically influences the response to treatment and overall survival. Given the relatively high prevalence of this polymorphism in the normal population, further prospective studies in CLL and other human malignancies are indicated."
2517	"Immunostimulatory oligodeoxynucleotides (IS ODN) can mediate a number of immunologic effects. We previously demonstrated that treatment of B cell chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells with one class of IS ODN, CpG ODN, alters their phenotype and increases their immunogenicity. Here, we demonstrate that in  contrast to the classic understanding of CpG ODN as inhibitors of B cell apoptosis, IS ODN including CpG ODN induce apoptosis in B-CLL cells. It is important that these changes are seen not only with CpG ODN but with ODN that lack the classical CpG motif. B-CLL cells from 20 subjects were treated in vitro  with IS ODN for up to 7 days. IS ODN treatment resulted in increased numbers of apoptotic cells in 13 out of 20 B-CLL samples. IS ODN enhanced apoptosis in samples with 13q deletion as a single aberration and had a heterogeneous effect on apoptosis in samples with other aberrations including 17p deletion, 11q deletion, or trisomy 12. Induction of apoptosis did not correlate with expression of the CpG ODN receptor Toll-like receptor 9. Apoptosis was dependent on the activation of caspases and was accompanied by up-regulation of CD95/Fas and its ligand. We conclude that IS ODN including CpG ODN can induce apoptosis of most B-CLL samples. The ability of IS ODN to induce apoptosis differs based on cytogenetic status. Up-regulation of CD95/Fas may play a role in IS ODN-induced apoptosis of B-CLL."
2518	"Richter's Syndrome is a highly refractory and usually fatal condition. It occurs  as a result of transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or low grade  lymphoma into highly aggressive lymphoma. Patients usually present with rapidly enlarging lymph nodes and systemic symptoms like night sweats, fever and weight loss. We are reporting a case of CLL presenting with similar symptoms. Initial suspicion of Richter's Syndrome proved wrong when lymph node biopsy did not reveal evidence of high grade lymphoma. Instead it showed findings consistent with cat scratch disease (CSD), later confirmed by serology. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of CSD in a patient with CLL."
2519	"Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) proteins comprise a family of transcription factors that have been implicated in tumoral transformation, especially in hematological malignancies. Because of this, the JAK/STAT pathway is attractive as a therapeutic target in these tumors. In the present study, we analyzed the ability of fludarabine and two JAK kinase inhibitors, AG490 and WHI-P131, to block STAT1 activation and induce apoptosis on B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells. All drugs were able to induce  a high percentage of apoptosis on B-CLL cells from all patients studied. However, only AG490 and WHI-P131 were able to strongly suppress the STAT1 activation of B-CLL cells. In conclusion, our data show that JAK kinase inhibitors, such as AG490 and WHI-P131 are able to inhibit the STAT1 pathway on B-CLL cells and are strong inductors of apoptosis on these cells."
2520	"In this study our purpose was to define chromosomal aberrations and CD38 expression in male siblings 69 and 66-years-old with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Cells from peripheral blood were analysed by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). The alteration detectable by CGH was the over-representation of the Y chromosome in both samples. Interphase FISH were performed using locus (13q14 and 17p53) and centromere (chromosome 12, 17 and Y) specific DNA probes. One brother (patient 1, 69 years of age) showed deletion of the 13q14 region, this alteration was associated with low CD38 expression, both predicting a favourable prognosis. However, the younger patient's (patient 2, 66 years of age) cells expressed CD38  in high percent, which is considered as an indicator of poor prognosis, and deletion of the 13q14 was not seen. Other, relatively frequent chromosomal alterations including trisomy 12 and deletion of 17p53 were not present in any of the samples. The cytogenetic findings and the CD38 expression are in concordance  with the clinico-pathological data of the siblings. Thus, we found the variability of these parameters described in B-CLL even in the familial form of the disease."
2521	"Fluorescent-labeled DNA probes were used to study 52 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients for (1) disease progression, (2) angiogenesis genes, (3) T-cell  leukemia 1 gene (TCL1), (4) immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IGHv) and (5) chromosome 6q. Compared to stable disease, more patients with progressive disease had > or =2 anomalies and a high percentage of neoplastic nuclei. Anomalies of genes for basic fibroblast growth factor, interleukin 4, vascular endothelial growth factor or TCL1 were not detected. Deletions in IGHv occurred in 25% of patients and correlated with IGHv gene expression. Probes for 6q23 detected more deletions in 6q than probes for 6q21."
2522	"We investigated the apoptosis gene expression profile of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells in relation to (1) normal peripheral and tonsillar B-cell subsets, (2) IgV(H) mutation status, and (3) effects of cytotoxic drugs. In accord with their noncycling, antiapoptotic status in vivo, CLL cells displayed high constitutive expression of Bcl-2 and Flip mRNA, while Survivin, Bid and Bik  were absent. Paradoxically, along with these antiapoptotic genes CLL cells had high-level expression of proapoptotic BH3-only proteins Bmf and Noxa. Treatment of CLL cells with fludarabine induced only the proapoptotic genes Bax and Puma in a p53-dependent manner. Interestingly, the degree of Puma induction was more pronounced in cells with mutated IgVH genes. Thus, disturbed apoptosis in CLL is  the net result of both protective and sensitizing aberrations. This delicate balance can be tipped via induction of Puma in a p53-dependent matter, the level  of which may vary between groups of patients with a different tendency for disease progression."
2523	"Cutaneous infection by Herpes virus (simplex or zoster) is a common non-specific  skin manifestation in patients affected by B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) or other malignant lymphomas and is attributed to the patients' immunodeficiency. Persistent or shortly recurrent lesions, however, may represent specific cutaneous infiltrates of systemic B-CLL of several months' duration. The occurrence of these lesions as first manifestation of B-CLL is rare and previously reported only on herpes zoster scars. A case of a 63-year-old male patient with cutaneous B-CLL infiltrate of the right oral commissure at the site  of herpes simplex scar as first sign of the disease is herein reported."
2524	"BACKGROUND: The humanized anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody, alemtuzumab (or Campath-1H), has been shown to potently deplete lymphocytes in human patients. It has been used to successfully treat graft versus host disease and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CD52 is expressed on normal lymphocytes, monocytes, and some dendritic cell subsets. However, normal Langerhans cells (LC's) in the skin do not bind alemtuzumab. We sought to determine whether the pathologic LC's  of Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) express CD52 and thus could be targeted by this antibody. METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was performed on both frozen and fixed/paraffin-embedded tissue specimens using either Campath-1G (the parental rat isotype) or Campath-1H (the humanized version of Campath in clinical use). RESULTS: Both Campath-1H and Campath-1G were found to bind to the pathologic LC's in LCH, but not the normal LC's of skin. Specific staining was demonstrated in all (13 of 13) LCH specimens examined, though staining was somewhat variable among specimens, and tended to be weaker in paraffin-embedded specimens. CONCLUSIONS: Expression of CD52 by the pathologic LC's seen in LCH suggests that  alemtuzumab may represent a new, targeted therapy for this disease. Such therapy  is particularly needed for patients with refractory, high-risk disease. Further investigation of the possible clinical use of this antibody in these patients is  warranted."
2527	"In order to identify regulatory genes involved in the development of an apoptosis-resistant phenotype in patients with chemotherapy refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) expression of apoptosis-regulating genes in  B-CLL cells was quantified using cDNA arrays and RT-PCR. Data were obtained from  and compared between 2 groups of B-CLL patients with either nonprogressive, indolent, previously untreated disease and with leukemic cells sensitive to in vitro fludarabine-induced apoptosis, referred to as sensitive B-CLL (sB-CLL) or with progressive, chemotherapy refractory disease and with leukemic cells resistant to in vitro fludarabine-induced apoptosis, referred to as resistant B-CLL (rB-CLL). By performing a supervised clustering of genes that most strongly discriminated between rB-CLL vs. sB-CLL a small group of genes was identified, where bfl-1 was the strongest discriminating gene (p < 0.05), with higher expression in rB-CLL. A group of apoptosis-regulating genes were modulated during induction of apoptosis by serum deprivation in vitro in a similar manner in all cases studied. However, bfl-1 was preferentially downregulated in sB-CLL as compared to rB-CLL (p < 0.05). We conclude that bfl-1 may be an important regulator of B-CLL apoptosis, which could contribute to disease progression and resistance to chemotherapy, and as such represent a future potential therapeutic  target."
2529	"Telomerase represents an attractive target for a mechanism-based therapeutic approach because its activation has been associated with unlimited proliferation  in most cancer cells. Recently, a nonnucleosidic small molecule inhibitor, BIBR1532 (2-[(E)-3-naphtalen-2-yl-but-2-enoylamino]-benzoic acid), has been identified that is highly selective for inhibition of telomerase, resulting in delayed growth arrest of tumor cells. Here we examined the effects of BIBR1532 in different leukemia cell lines as well as in primary cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in short-term culture assays. We observed a dose-dependent direct cytotoxicity in concentrations ranging from 30 to 80 microM. Interestingly, cell death was not dependent on the catalytic activity of telomerase but was delayed in cells with very long telomeres. We observed time-dependent individual telomere erosion, which was associated with loss of telomeric repeat binding factor 2 (TRF2) and increased phosphorylation of p53. Importantly, the proliferative capacity of normal CD34(+) cells from cord blood and leukapheresis samples was not affected by treatment with BIBR1532. We conclude that using this class of telomerase inhibitor at higher concentrations exerts a direct cytotoxic effect on malignant  cells of the hematopoietic system, which appears to derive from direct damage of  the structure of individual telomeres and must be dissected from telomerase-suppressed overall telomere shortening."
2530	"Fibromodulin (FMOD) was shown to be highly overexpressed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells compared with normal B lymphocytes by gene expression profiling. Therefore FMOD might serve as potential tumor-associated antigen (TAA) in CLL, enabling expansion of FMOD-specific T cells. In CLL samples derived from  16 different patients, high expression of FMOD by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was detectable in contrast to normal B lymphocytes. We used unpulsed native CLL cells and CD40 ligand (CD40L)-stimulated CLL cells as antigen-presenting cells (APCs) to expand autologous T cells from 13 patients. The number of T cells during 4 weeks of in vitro culture increased 2- to 3.5-fold and the number of T cells recognizing FMOD peptides bound to HLA-A2 dimers increased 10-fold. The expanded T cells also were able to secrete interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) upon recognition of the antigen demonstrated by IFN-gamma ELISPOT assays. T cells not only recognized HLA-A2-binding FMOD peptides presented by transporter-associated with antigen-processing (TAP)-deficient T2 cells, but also FMOD overexpressing autologous CLL cells in an HLA-A2-restricted manner. In summary, FMOD was shown for the first time to be naturally processed and presented as TAA in primary CLL  cells, enabling the expansion of autologous tumor-specific T cells."
2531	"The human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) molecule exhibits limited tissue distribution and exerts multiple immunoregulatory functions. Recent studies indicate an ectopic up-regulation in tumor cells that may favor their escape from antitumor immune responses. The role of HLA-G in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has not been defined. HLA-G expression was studied retrospectively in circulating B-CLL cells from 47 patients by flow cytometry using the anti-HLA-E specific monoclonal antibody MEM/G9. The proportion of leukemic cells expressing HLA-G varied from 1% to 54%. Patients with 23% or fewer HLA-G-positive cells (according to receiver operating characteristics [ROC] analysis; designated as HLA-G-negative group) had a significantly longer progression-free survival (PFS) time than patients with more than 23% positive cells (median PFS: 120 versus 23 months; P = .0001). In multivariate analysis, HLA-G expression (hazard ratio: 4.8; P = .002) was an even better independent prognostic factor than the zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) or CD38 status. Humoral and cellular immunosuppression were significantly more prominent in the HLA-G-positive compared with the HLA-G-negative patient group. In B-CLL, the level of HLA-G expression is correlated with the degree of immunosuppression and  prognosis. HLA-G may contribute to the impairment of immune responses against tumor cells and infections. Thus, these findings need to be confirmed in a prospective study."
2532	"We studied immunoglobulin variable heavy-chain (IGHV) repertoire and mutational status in 553 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) from the Mediterranean area to gain insight into the potential pathogenetic role of antigenic stimulation. The most commonly represented IGHV genes mirrored the usage of normal B cells, with the exception of IGHV1-18, IGHV3-30.3, and IGHV4-59 that were underrepresented. The IGHV3-21 gene, frequently expressed in Northern European CLL, was present only in 16 cases (2.9%). Based on HCDR3 cluster analysis, cases using IGHV3-21 could be grouped in 2 subsets of similar frequency. The first one (7 of 16 cases) carried a similar HCDR3 amino acid sequence (common-HCDR3 subset), virtually identical to the Scandinavian IGHV3-21  CLL. These cases used the IGHJ6 gene; 4 of 7 were unmutated; 6 of 7 carried the V(lambda)2-14 (IGLV3-21) light-chain gene with a similar LCDR3. All expressed CD38 and had a progressive disease. The second subset (9 of 16) was characterized by heterogeneous HCDR3 rearrangements (nonhomogeneous-HCDR3 subset), diverse IGHJ and IGV light-chain gene usage, variable IGHV mutational status (5 of 9 unmutated), variable CD38 expression, and variable clinical course (4 of 9 progressed). The first subset suggests a potential antigenic element rarely encountered in the Mediterranean area, possibly responsible for a negative outcome. The second subset may reflect the physiologic heterogeneity of expression of IGHV3-21 rearrangements in the normal repertoire and is characterized by a variable clinical outcome."
2533	"Human B cells detect CpG motifs within microbial DNA via TLR9. Synthetic CpG oligodeoxynucleotides are currently being tested in clinical trials for the therapy of different types of B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. However, there is only limited information on the CpG oligodeoxynucleotide sensitivity of primary malignant B cells of different non-Hodgkin's lymphoma entities. Here we found that most B-cell malignancies except plasmacytoma respond to CpG oligodeoxynucleotides by up-regulating expression of costimulatory and antigen-presenting molecules, by increasing expression of CD20, and by proliferation. In an in vitro analysis of 41 individual patient-derived primary tumor samples, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and marginal zone lymphoma showed the strongest activation upon stimulation with CpG oligodeoxynucleotides. Small lymphocytic lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, and large cell lymphoma showed an intermediate response. Consistent with CpG oligodeoxynucleotides sensitivity, TLR9 mRNA was present in B-CLL but absent in plasmacytoma. Although CpG oligodeoxynucleotides induced proliferation in all CpG oligodeoxynucleotide-sensitive types of B-cell malignancies, proliferation was weaker than in normal B cells and at least for B-CLL was followed by increased apoptosis. In conclusion, B-cell malignancies show significant differences in their responsiveness to CpG oligodeoxynucleotides. Focusing clinical studies on patients with highly CpG oligodeoxynucleotide-sensitive B-cell malignancies may improve the clinical outcome of such trials."
2534	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by a progressive accumulation of long-lived and well-differentiated clonal B-lymphocytes in peripheral blood, lymphoid tissue and bone marrow. Although B-CLL pathogenesis is not entirely understood, the progressive increase in lymphocyte counts coupled with the very low proportion of proliferating cells suggests that B-CLL may be primarily determined by defective apoptosis. Consistently, freshly analyzed CLL B-cells express very low levels of membrane CD95, one of the best-known receptors involved in triggering apoptosis. In this study, CD95 upregulation on CLL B-cells was induced by culturing clonal B-cells in the presence of supernatants from preactivated autologous T-lymphocytes. Intracellular cytokine staining of preactivated autologous T-lymphocytes using monoclonal antibodies (moAbs) specific for Th1 or Th2 cytokines, namely interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-10 and interferon (IFN)-gamma, showed these cells to be positive for IL-2 and IFN-gamma. Blocking experiments using moAbs specific for IL-2 and/or IFN-gamma revealed that CD95 upregulation on CLL B-cells was mainly driven by IFN-gamma. However, CD95-expressing CLL B-cells were demonstrated to be resistant to CD95-mediated apoptosis, thus arguing against strategies aimed at exploiting CD95-mediated apoptosis for immunotherapy of B-CLL."
2537	"We identified 382 consecutive patients with lymphoid neoplasms associated with serum monoclonal IgM paraprotein and classified each neoplasm according to World  Health Organization criteria. Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenström macroglobulinemia (LPL/WM) was most common, 225 cases (median serum IgM level, 2.2 g/dL; range, 0.2-10.9 g/dL). For 157 cases, classification and median (and range in g/dL) IgM levels were as follows: chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL; n = 77), 0.9 (0.1-2.1); marginal zone lymphoma (n  = 27), 0.5 (0.1-2.4); follicular lymphoma (n = 18), 0.4 (0.1-1.6); mantle cell lymphoma (n = 11), 0.4 (0.2-1.3); diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL; n = 7), 0.5 (0.2-1.0); DLBCL associated with low-grade lymphoma (n = 5), 0.9 (0.4-3.0); angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (n = 4), 0.8 (0.8); and CD5+CD23- low-grade B-cell lymphoma, unclassified (n = 8), 0.5 (0.3-2.9). The results show IgM paraproteinemia was associated most commonly with LPL/WM (58.9%), followed by CLL/SLL (20.2%). Although serum IgM levels greater than 3 g/dL were restricted to patients with LPL/WM, most patients with LPL/WM had paraprotein levels less than  3 g/dL. Thus, serum IgM paraprotein level is not a reliable discriminator in differential diagnosis."
2538	"Cladribine (2-CdA) is structurally similar to another purine analog, fludarabine  (FA), recently accepted in several centers as the first-line treatment in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Unfortunately, there is less experience with the use  of 2-CdA than with FA in patients with CLL in the majority of Western countries.  In the last decade we performed several phase II studies and two phase III randomized trials to evaluate the activity and toxicity of 2-CdA in previously treated and untreated patients with CLL. We have also compared the results of Polish studies with the data presented by other investigators. Similarly to FA this agent has been found to be more effective in previously untreated CLL than in patients refractory to or relapsed after conventional therapy with alkylating  agents. In different studies the overall response (OR) rate ranged from 70 to 85% and complete response (CR) from 10 to 47%. Higher CR and OR rates in CLL patients treated with 2-CdA and prednisone than with chlorambucil and prednisone were confirmed in our multicenter, randomized study. Subsequently, we performed a multicenter, randomized study comparing 2-CdA alone with a combination of 2-CdA and cyclophosphamide (CC) or cyclophosphamide and mitoxantrone (CMC). Our updated results seem to indicate that the CC program used as a first-line therapy in CLL  gives higher CR and OR and better elimination of minimal residual disease (MRD) than 2-CdA alone. CC is also less myelotoxic than CMC. More recently, we have undertaken a phase II study to determine the efficacy and toxicity of 2-CdA combined with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab in CLL and other refractory or relapsed indolent lymphoproliferative disorders. The preliminary results seem to be better than in similar patients previously treated in our institution with 2-CdA alone. In conclusion, the studies performed in the last decade in Poland and other countries have shown that 2-CdA used alone or in combination with other agents is, similarly to FA, a highly active and relatively safe agent in previously treated and untreated patients with CLL."
2539	"cAMP-mediated signaling potentiates glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis in lymphoid cells, but an effective means by which to take advantage of this observation in the treatment of lymphoid malignancies has not been identified. The primary objective of the current study was to determine whether PDE4 inhibitors, a class  of compounds in late clinical development that raise intracellular cAMP levels by inhibiting type 4 cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDE4), increase the efficacy of glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis in leukemic cells from patients with B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Rolipram, a prototypic PDE4 inhibitor, synergized with glucocorticoids in inducing B-CLL but not T cell apoptosis. Rolipram also augmented glucocorticoid receptor element (GRE) transactivation in B-CLL cells. In contrast, inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA) with the cAMP antagonist Rp-8Br-cAMPS reversed both glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis and GRE transactivation. CCRF-CEM cells, a well-studied model of glucocorticoid and cAMP-induced apoptosis, differed from B-CLL cells in that stimulation of adenylyl cyclase with the diterpene forskolin was required to increase both glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis and GRE activation, while PDE4 inhibition had no effect. Consistent with these results, inhibition of PDE4 induced cAMP elevation in B-CLL but not CCRF-CEM cells, while forskolin augmented cAMP levels in CCRF-CEM but not B-CLL cells. While rolipram treatment up-regulated PDE4B in B-CLL, forskolin treatment up-regulated PDE4D in CCRF-CEM cells. These studies suggest that PKA is required for and enhances glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis in B-CLL by modulating glucocorticoid receptor signal transduction. Clinical trials that examine whether PDE4 inhibitors enhance the efficacy of glucocorticoid-containing chemotherapy regimens in B-CLL are indicated."
2540	"Preclinical studies with the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor depsipeptide (FK228) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) have demonstrated that it effectively induces apoptosis at concentrations at which HDAC inhibition occurs. We initiated a minimum effective pharmacologic dose study of depsipeptide, targeting an in vivo dose at which acetylation of histone  proteins H3 and H4 increased by 100% or more in vitro. Ten patients with CLL and  10 patients with AML were treated with 13 mg/m(2) depsipeptide intravenously days 1, 8, and 15 of therapy. Neither life-threatening toxicities nor cardiac toxicities were noted, although the majority of patients experienced progressive  fatigue, nausea, and other constitutional symptoms that prevented repeated dosing. Several patients had evidence of antitumor activity following treatment,  but no partial or complete responses were noted by National Cancer Institute criteria. HDAC inhibition and histone acetylation increases of at least 100% were noted, as well as increases in p21 promoter H4 acetylation, p21 protein, and 1D10 antigen expression. We conclude that depsipeptide effectively inhibits HDAC in vivo in patients with CLL and AML, but its use in the current schedule of administration is limited by progressive constitutional symptoms. Future studies  with depsipeptide should examine alternative administration schedules."
2541	"Biosynthesis of leukotrienes (LTs) occurs in human myeloid cells and B lymphocytes. However, the function of leukotrienes in B lymphocytes is unclear. Here, we report that B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells produce leukotriene B(4), and that specific leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors counteracted CD40-dependent activation of B-CLL cells. Studies on the expression  of the high-affinity receptor for LTB(4) (BLT1) by flow cytometry analysis showed that the receptor was expressed, to a varying degree, in all investigated B-CLL clones. At a concentration of 100 nM, the drugs BWA4C (a specific 5-lipoxygenase  inhibitor) and MK-886 (a specific 5-lipoxygenase activating protein inhibitor) markedly inhibited CD40-induced DNA synthesis (45% and 38%, respectively) and CD40-induced expression of CD23, CD54, and CD150. Addition of exogenous LTB(4) (150 nM) almost completely reversed the effect of the inhibitors on DNA synthesis and antigen expression. Taken together, the results of the present study suggest  that leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors may have a therapeutic role in B-CLL."
2542	"The BCL2 gene was identified through molecular analysis of the breakpoints involved in the t(14;18)(q32;q21) found in the majority of follicular lymphomas (FL). Variant translocations leading to juxtaposing of the BCL2 with either the IGK or IGL gene have been recognized in B-cell malignant lymphoma, although they  are rare. We identified seven lymphoma cases that had variant translocations. Three cases had simple translocations involving two chromosomal regions: t(18;22)(q21;q11.2) in two cases and t(2;18)(p11.2;q21) in the third case. Complex translocations affecting more than two chromosomes were seen in the remaining four cases. Fluorescence in situ hybridization using the LSI IGH/BCL2 DNA probes revealed rearrangements of the BCL2 gene locus in all cases. In addition, expression of BCL2 protein was seen in all cases; only five of the seven cases expressed BCL6 protein. Morphologically, the lymphomas were categorized as B-cell follicular lymphoma in six cases and in the seventh case as diffuse large cell lymphoma (Richter syndrome) transformed from preexisting chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In case 2, the variant t(18;22) was seen as a secondary aberration evolving from a trisomy 12 clone. The findings revealed that BCL2 rearrangements in some malignant lymphomas occur through variant simple or complex chromosomal translocations, but always involving the IGH, IGK, or IGL chromosomal site. In addition, fluorescence in situ hybridization proved to be an important tool in evaluating these cases by showing IGH/BCL2 gene fusion or repositioning of the BCL2 gene."
2543	"Cancer antigen 125 (CA 125) is a glycoprotein expressed in normal tissues originally derived from celomic epithelia and its serum level is elevated in various benign and malignant conditions that involve stimulation of these tissues. Elevated levels have been reported in 40-43% of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) at diagnosis and were associated with parameters known to be associated with advanced and disseminated disease, and with event-free and overall survival. No difference in CA 125 level was found between  indolent and aggressive lymphomas, and four of six patients with small lymphocytic lymphoma had elevated CA 125 levels. We therefore decided to measure  serum CA 125 levels in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients, and evaluated them in 74 consecutive patients. The mean time from diagnosis to test was 74.5 months (range: 0-300). The mean serum CA 125 level was 16.3 U/ml (range: 3.7-133, normal value: <35 U/ml). CA 125 levels were elevated only in two patients (2.7%). To conclude, serum CA 125 levels are rarely elevated in CLL patients. It is possible that serum CA 125 levels can help differentiate between equivocal cases  of small lymphocytic lymphoma and CLL."
2544	"Cancer antigen (CA 125) is a glycoprotein commonly used as a tumor marker. In this study, CA 125 levels were measured in 149 patients and 26 healthy control subjects. The study group included 69 non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL), 25 Hodgkin disease (HD), 20 acute myelocytic leukemia (AML), 14 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 12 chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML), and nine multiple myeloma (MM) patients. CA 125 was elevated in 37 of the patients and in none of the control subjects. Average CA 125 level in NHL patients was significantly higher than the  controls (56.2 +/- 9.2 U/ml, 7.99 +/- 1.05 U/ml respectively) (P < 0.05). CA 125  levels were significantly higher in NHL patients with abdominal involvement (113.6 +/- 23.4 U/ml), with B-symptoms (72.3 +/- 13.2 U/ml), higher stage of the  disease (stages III and IV -75.3 +/- 14.9 U/ml), bulky disease (99.9 +/- 30.4 U/ml) and in those with serosal involvement (103.1 +/- 18.5 U/ml) (P < 0.05 for all). CA 125 levels were also elevated in seven patients with HD and in a patient with CLL with pleural effusion. In conclusion, for patients with NHL, high levels of CA 125 were associated with B-symptoms, advanced stage, bulky disease, abdominal, and serosal involvement. Therefore, CA 125 might be used as a marker to predict prognosis and to detect advanced disease in NHL."
2545	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against CD52, a small glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoprotein that is highly expressed on normal T- and B-lymphocytes, and on a large proportion of malignant lymphoid cells, but not on hematopoietic progenitor cells. Over the past several years, a  number of clinical trials have demonstrated the clinical activity of alemtuzumab  in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, T-cell malignancies such  as T-prolymphocytic leukemia and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, as well as in the prevention and therapy of graft-versus-host disease in the setting of allogeneic  stem cell transplantation. Its application in a number of autoimmune disorders is currently under investigation. The most significant side effect of alemtuzumab is predisposition to infections related to the associated profound lymphopenia. Despite this, and with appropriate and more effective antibiotic prophylaxis, it  is likely that we will witness an expansion of the role of alemtuzumab in the future."
2546	"Denileukin diftitox (DAB389IL-2; Ontak) is a novel recombinant fusion protein approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of relapsed or  refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. It consists of fragments of diphtheria toxin linked to human interleukin-2 and works by targeting the high-affinity interleukin-2 receptor expressed on malignant cells. This article will review the clinical trials leading to the approval of denileukin diftitox for cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, and discuss the potential future role of this novel drug in patients with both malignant and nonmalignant diseases, including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, solid tumors, psoriasis and graft-versus-host disease."
2549	"PURPOSE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is heterogeneous in its clinical course. The aim of the present study was to identify some clinical and laboratory parameters with prognostic value in relation to survival of patients with CLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred thirty one patients with CLL, treated in the Clinic of Hematology, Plovdiv, between 1992 and 2003 were studied. The patients'  survival was analyzed by using the Kaplan-Meier method. Log-rank test was used to compare cumulative survival functions between different groups of patients. The parameters studied were: age, sex, Rai clinical stage, ECOG Performance status (PS), FAB morphological type, mediastinal lymphadenopathy, abdominal nodal mass,  extranodal localization, absolute lymphocyte count, autoimmune hemolytic anemia,  and response to therapy. RESULTS: The mean survival of patients was 76 months (95% Confidence Interval, 64-87). The following factors were found to carry significant prognostic value in relation to survival: Rai clinical stage, ECOG PS, mediastinal lymphadenopathy, extranodal localization, FAB morphological type and response to initial standard  treatment. CONCLUSION: The prognostic factors identified in the present study can be easily  applied in the clinical practice and may be used as a basis for creating mathematical prognostic models."
2550	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a neoplastic disorder characterized by accumulation of B lymphocytes due to uncontrolled growth and resistance to apoptosis. Analysis of B cells freshly isolated from 40 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia demonstrated that the Src kinase Lyn, the switch molecule that couples the B cell receptor to downstream signaling, displays anomalous properties. Lyn is remarkably overexpressed at the protein level in leukemic cells as compared with normal B lymphocytes, with a substantial aliquot of the kinase anomalously present in the cytosol. Whereas in normal B lymphocytes Lyn activation is dependent on B cell-receptor stimulation, in resting malignant cells, the constitutive activity of the kinase accounts for high basal protein tyrosine phosphorylation and low responsiveness to IgM ligation. Addition of the Lyn inhibitors PP2 and SU6656 to leukemic cell cultures restores cell apoptosis, and treatment of malignant cells with drugs that induce  cell apoptosis decreases both activity and amount of the tyrosine kinase. These findings suggest a direct correlation between high basal Lyn activity and defects in the induction of apoptosis in leukemic cells. They also support a critical role for Lyn in B-CLL pathogenesis and identify this tyrosine kinase as a potential therapeutic target."
2552	"The 4-day combination of dexamethasone, ifosfamide, cisplatin, and etoposide (DICE) is a salvage regimen for lymphoma. We report a prospective phase II multi-center trial of a modified DICE regimen in relapsed or refractory Hodgkin (HL) or non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), constituting a single day of intravenous administration followed by 3 days of oral administration, aimed at reducing inpatient days without losing efficacy. Forty patients (median age 56, range 25 - 79) were included: 28 (70%) NHL, 9 (23%) HL and 3 (8%) CLL. Fifty-three per cent had received 2 prior treatment regimens. International Prognostic Index (IPI) was 2 in 75% of NHL patients. Patients aged 55 and those with previous autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) started on a lower-dose regimen, with dose escalation possible in 2 patients. Overall response rate was 41%. Thirty-eight per cent of patients had stable disease. With a median of 3.1 years of follow-up, estimated progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates at 3 years were 15% and 43% respectively. OS was longer in the < 55 compared to the 55 age cohort (P = 0.0091), longer for HL than NHL (P = 0.59 and 0.039 respectively) and longer for Low/Low-Int IPI than High/High-Int IPI (P = 0.0074 and 0.0009 respectively).  Median duration of inpatient stay was 3 days. There were no treatment-related deaths. In conclusion, this modification of DICE is an effective and well tolerated salvage regimen, even in this poor prognosis group of patients. Further clinical studies of DICE in first relapse and in older patients, possibly with the addition of rituximab, are warranted."
2553	"The original observation that sera from patients with chronic B-cell lymphocytic  leukemia (B-CLL) contain high amounts of soluble CD23 (sCD23), which reflect disease activity and tumor load has been confirmed by numerous reports and serial determinations of sCD23 are now recognized as important indicators of disease progression. The reason why the leukemic cells over express CD23 and subsequently release large quantities of sCD23 as compared to healthy persons or patients with other lymphoproliferative disorders is still not clear. However, progress has been made in understanding the mechanism leading to the upregulation of CD23 in the leukemic cells. Following is an update on clinical data and a short review on the potential functions of CD23 as well as its regulation by Notch2 in B-CLL."
2554	"Recently, proteasome inhibitors (PI) have attracted interest as novel anticancer  agents in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). A prominent feature of B-CLL cells is the high expression of CD23, which is closely related to cell survival and is regulated by Notch2. Since several components of the Notch signaling cascade are tightly regulated by proteasomal degradation, we studied the effect of PI on Notch2 activity and CD23 expression. Exposure of B-CLL cells  to PI led to induction of apoptosis, a time- and dose-dependent downregulation of CD23 expression and a decline in DNA binding of transcriptionally active Notch2.  In contrast, the transcription factor NF-AT and its putative target gene CD5, which is highly expressed in B-CLL cells, were unaffected. When the late phase of PI-induced apoptosis was arrested by inhibition of caspase 3, the reduction of Notch2 activity was still observed, indicating that reduction of active Notch2 took place already during an earlier phase of apoptosis. Enforced expression of constitutively active Notch2 decreased PI-mediated apoptosis in a human B-cell line. These data indicate that downregulation of CD23 and loss of Notch2 activity are early steps in PI-induced apoptosis of B-CLL lymphocytes and may be part of the full apoptotic response."
2555	"Allicin, a highly active component from freshly crushed garlic, is produced upon  the reaction of the small molecular weight molecule alliin, with the enzyme alliinase (EC 4.4.1.4). Because allicin was shown to be toxic to various mammalian cells in vitro, we devised a novel approach for the therapy of B-cell malignancies based on site-directed generation of allicin. Alliinase was conjugated to the monoclonal antibody rituximab, which recognizes the CD20 antigen, and the resulting conjugate was targeted to CD20+ B chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (B-CLL) and other B-cell lymphomas. Upon addition of alliin, allicin was formed in situ, killing the CD20+ tumor B cells via apoptosis. Following a 72-hour treatment, an 85% and 96% reduction was observed in the number of viable  B-CLL and EBV-transformed B cells, respectively. Using the human/mouse radiation  chimera for the evaluation of allicin targeting in a preclinical animal model, we showed a significant reduction in the number of recovered B-CLL, mantle cell lymphoma, or EBV-transformed B cells. We conclude that our system offers a new powerful and less toxic therapy for B-CLL and other B-cell malignancies. Furthermore, combining alliinase with the appropriate monoclonal antibody may extend the application of this approach to other conditions in which the elimination of a specific cell population is desired."
2557	"This review provides some basic information on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and attempts to present some of the newer data which have accumulated in recent years including those relating to familial aggregation of CLL and the detection of monoclonal CD5+ lymphocytosis in the general population and families of CLL patients. Novel data on the pathogenesis and concepts of cell origin in CLL are also reviewed stressing the fact that there is biased IgVH gene usage, and the importance of mutational status of the CLL cell, as reported in recent years by different authors. A brief review of the significance of the microenvironmental interactions between stromal cells and other accessory cells, and the leukemic CLL cells is also provided. Other clinical aspects are discussed including diagnostic criteria, clinical staging, and the newer prognostic factors which influence survival and timing of therapy for CLL patients. We also attempt to outline the therapeutic options available and the principles of planning risk and age-adapted treatment, stressing the importance and the necessity for participating in ongoing and future international clinical trials."
2558	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clonal hematopoietic disorder characterized by proliferation and accumulation of small lymphocytes. It is the most common form of leukemia in North America and Europe. The management of CLL is determined by the stage and activity of the disease. Several randomized studies indicate that cytotoxic therapy based on alkylating agents in the indolent phase of disease, does not prolong the survival time of CLL patients. Chlorambucil, with or without steroids, has been for many years the drug of choice in previously untreated patients with this leukemia. Alternative treatment approaches, including new purine nucleoside analogs (PNA), such as fludarabine and 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (cladribine) have also shown activity in CLL. The randomized studies have indicated a higher overall response, complete remission rates and longer response duration in patients treated initially with PNA than with chlorambucil or cyclophosphamide based combination regimens. These agents alone or in combinations, seem to be the treatment of choice for patients failing standard therapies. The monoclonal antibodies directed against CD52 antigen (alemtuzumab, Campath-1H) and CD20 antigen (rituximab) demonstrate also significant activity in CLL patients. These agents have significant single-agent  activity, distinct mechanism of action and generally, favorable toxicity profiles. Both antibodies achieved the most promising results in the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory CLL. More recently the effect of alemtuzumab in previously untreated patients has been also investigated and results are very  encouraging. A multicenter prospective randomized study comparing alemtuzumab and chlorambucil as first line therapies are ongoing and preliminary results show acceptable toxicity profile of monoclonal antibody."
2559	"Retraction in     Oncogene. 2011 Jun 16;30(24):2798."
2560	"Resistance to fludarabine is observed in the clinic, and molecular predictive assays for benefit from chemotherapy are required. Our objective was to determine if expression of nucleoside transport and metabolism genes was associated with response to fludarabine therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CLL cells from 56 patients were collected prior to treatment with fludarabine. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed on sample RNA to determine the relative levels of mRNA of  3 nucleoside transporters that mediate fludarabine uptake (human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 [hENT1], human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 2 [hENT2], and human concentrative nucleoside transporter 3 [hCNT3]), deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), and 3 5'-nucleotidases (ecto-5'nucleotidase [CD73], deoxynucleotidase-1 [dNT-1], and cytoplasmic high-Km 5-nucleotidase [CN-II]). Two-dimensional hierarchical cluster analysis of gene expression identified 2 distinct populations of CLL. Cluster 2 patients experienced a 3.4-fold higher risk of disease progression than cluster 1 patients (P = .0058, log-rank analysis). Furthermore, independent analysis of the individual genes of interest  revealed statistically significant differences for risk of disease progression (adjusted hazard ratios [HRs]) with underexpression of dNT-1 (HR = 0.45; P = .042), CD73 (HR = 0.40; P = .022), and dCK (HR = 0.0.48; P = .035), and overexpression of hCNT3 (HR = 4.7; P = .0007) genes. Subjects with elevated hCNT3 expression experienced a lower complete response rate to fludarabine therapy (11% vs 69%; P = .002). No hCNT3-mediated plasma membrane nucleoside transport was detected in CLL samples expressing hCNT3 message, and hCNT3 protein was localized to the cytoplasm with immunohistochemical and confocal microscopy."
2561	"B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) is a pivotal regulator of apoptotic cell death and it is overexpressed in many cancers. Consequently, the Bcl-2 protein is an attractive target for drug design, and Bcl-2-specific antisense oligonucleotides  or small-molecule Bcl-2 inhibitors have shown broad anticancer activities in preclinical models and are currently in several clinical trials. The clinical application of immunotherapy against cancer is rapidly moving forward in multiple areas, including the adoptive transfer of anti-tumor-reactive T cells and the use of "therapeutic" vaccines. The overexpression of Bcl-2 in cancer and the fact that immune escape by down-regulation or loss of expression of this protein would impair sustained tumor growth makes Bcl-2 a very attractive target for anticancer immunotherapy. Herein, we describe spontaneous T-cell reactivity against Bcl-2 in peripheral blood from patients suffering from unrelated tumor types (ie, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, acute myeloid leukemia [AML], and chronic lymphocytic leukemia [CLL]). Additionally, we show that these Bcl-2-reactive T cells are indeed peptide-specific, cytotoxic effector cells. Thus, Bcl-2 may serve as an important and widely applicable target for anticancer immunotherapeutic strategies (eg, in the combination with conventional radiotherapy and chemotherapy)."
2562	"Richter's transformation denotes the development of high-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma, prolymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin disease, or acute leukemia in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma. A search of published articles in Medline (PubMed) and abstracts from professional meetings was performed. An electronic database search of patients with CLL at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center (Houston, TX) determined the incidence of Richter syndrome (RS) in patients with CLL between 1992 and 2002. RS occurs in approximately 5% of patients with CLL. The large cells of RS may arise  through transformation of the original CLL clone or represent a new neoplasm. RS  may be triggered by viral infections, such as Epstein-Barr virus. Trisomy 12 and  chromosome 11 abnormalities are more frequent in patients with RS than in the overall population of patients with CLL. Multiple genetic defects, such as mutations of the p53 tumor suppressor gene, p16INK4A, and p21, loss of p27 expression, deletion of retinoblastoma, increased copy number of C-MYC, and decreased expression of the A-MYB gene, have been described. These abnormalities  may cause CLL cells to proliferate and-by facilitating the acquisition of new genetic abnormalities-to transform into RS cells. Therapeutic strategies include  intensive chemotherapy, monoclonal antibodies, and stem cell transplantation. The response rates range from 5% to 43% (complete response, 5-38%), and the median survival duration ranges from 5 months to 8 months. In conclusion, RS may be triggered by viral infections or by genetic defects. Current treatments are aggressive, but prognosis is poor. Novel curative treatment strategies are needed."
2564	"BACKGROUND: An endemic fungal infection of the desert southwestern United States, coccidioidomycosis is generally a self-limited illness in healthy persons. Immunosuppressed persons who contract coccidioidomycosis, however, are at increased risk for disseminated infection. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of patients with coccidioidomycosis  and hematologic malignancy or bone marrow disease. RESULTS: Fifty-five patients were identified. The most common underlying malignancies were non-Hodgkin lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Extrathoracic (or disseminated) infection was observed in 12 patients (22%). Fifteen patients (27%) died with active coccidioidomycosis. Treatment of the hematologic disease with corticosteroids or antineoplastic chemotherapy increased the risk of death. CONCLUSION: To date, this is the largest case series of patients with hematologic malignancy and coccidioidomycosis. In persons with hematologic malignancy, coccidioidomycosis can be a severe illness with a high risk for disseminated infection and death."
2565	"PURPOSE: CD5 is a T cell marker, aberrantly express in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Other chronic B cell malignancies including hairy cell leukemia (HCL) and B cell prolymphocytic leukemia (B-PLL) are CD5 negative or express this antigen in a weak way. In this  study, CD5 expression was investigated in leukemic cells from 42 patients with chronic B cell lymphoproliferative disease. METHODS: We studied the CD5 expression in leukemic cells from 42 patients with chronic B-cell malignancies by flow cytometry. Demographic features such as age,  sex and clinical date were also analyzed. RESULTS: There were 22 males and 20 females. The immunophenotyping showed that 35 cases were B-CLL, 3 B-PLL and HCL and one patient was MCL. CD5 expression was present in all B-CLL and MCL. Low expression of CD5 was observed in one patient with B-PLL and negative in all cases of HCL. CONCLUSION: Our date demonstrated that CD5 expression can help distinguish among  B-CLL from HCL and B-PLL, but is similar expressed in MCL."
2566	"Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) regulates clonal proliferation of malignant pre-B cell lines, but little is known about its role in normal B lymphocyte differentiation and malignant transformation. To understand the expression of PDGF-A, PDGF-B and the beta-receptor (PDGF-Rbeta) in B cell lymphoproliferative disorders, we used an immunohistochemical method to stain formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues in 5 patients with reactive lymphoid hyperplasia, 15 with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and 23 with B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Abundant PDGF-A, rather than PDGF-B, was expressed in normal B cell differentiation. There was no difference in the expression of PDGF-A and PDGF-B between patients with reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and patients with malignant lymphoproliferative disorders. Among the patients with B-CLL, the expression of PDGF-B was much stronger than the expression of PDGF-A, and 18 of the patients had coexpression of PDGF-B and PDGF-Rbeta. A larger proportion of patients with B-CLL than with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma had expression of PDGF-B and PDGF-Rbeta. In conclusion, PDGF-A expression in all stages of B lymphocyte differentiation suggests that it is important in B cell differentiation and proliferation. Expression of PDGF-B and PDGF-Rbeta suggests that autocrine signaling of PDGF may be important in malignant transformation of B-CLL. However, further studies are necessary to confirm these conclusions."
2568	"Angiogenesis plays a major role in the development and progression of haematological malignancies. In our study we measured plasma concentrations of key angiogenic activators vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) using comercially available sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 37 patients with lymphoid malignancies and 20 healthy donors. We found a statistically significant increase in bFGF concentrations in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL, n=18) compared to the control group (median 118.8 vs. 9.3 pg/ml, p<0.001). However, we didn't find any significant difference in VEGF concentrations between B-CLL patients and the control group. There was also no significant increase in bFGF or VEGF in patients with multiple myeloma (n=7) and  non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n=12). Our pilot study shows that measurement of angiogenic activators in plasma is a feasible and reproducible method of angiogenesis assessment. Larger studies are needed for correlation between serum  and plasma concentrations and detailed statistical evaluation including the impact on patients' survival."
2571	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) and mantle cell lymphoma usually are distinctly different in regard to clinical presentation, morphology, immunophenotype, and molecular/genetic findings. In spite of this, select cases may show overlapping characteristics and represent a diagnostic challenge. Cyclin D1 immunohistochemical staining is usually envisioned as a definitive method for resolving this differential diagnosis, with positivity supporting a diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma. We report a case involving a 58-year-old man with a diagnosis of CLL/SLL for several years. A lymph node excision was performed after increased adenopathy was noted in the cervical region. The excised lymph node showed typical morphologic findings of CLL/SLL, including the presence of characteristic proliferation centers. Cyclin D1 staining, using 3 different antibodies, was present in scattered prolymphocytes and paraimmunoblasts, mostly within proliferation centers. Fluorescence in situ hybridization and conventional cytogenetics demonstrated trisomy 12 and an absence of t(11;14) in lymph node tissue. Focal cyclin D1 expression by immunohistochemistry in nodal CLL/SLL is quite unusual and is discussed as a potential diagnostic pitfall."
2572	"A 47-year-old white man presented for evaluation of a complex right renal mass. He had a history of human immunodeficiency virus. Cervical lymph node biopsy had  revealed small lymphocytic lymphoma. Computed tomographic scan disclosed diffuse  mesenteric and retroperitoneal adenopathy consistent with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, as well as a 4.5-cm complex cystic right renal mass, which 17 months later enlarged to 6.2 cm. The mass resembled multiloculated cystic nephroma. Partial nephrectomy revealed infiltration of the cyst wall by small lymphocytic lymphoma. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of lymphoma arising in or colonizing a renal cyst."
2573	"Heavy chain diseases (HCDs) are rare B-cell lymphoplasma-cell proliferative disorders characterized by production of truncated monoclonal immunoglobulin heavy chains without associated light chains. HCDs involving the three main immunoglobulin classes have been described; alpha-HCD is the most common and has  the most uniform presentation, gamma- and mu-HCDs have variable clinical presentations and histopathologic features. HCDs can be thought of as variant types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma: alpha-HCD presents as an extranodal marginal-zone  lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymph-node tissue, gamma-HCD as lymphoplasmacytoid  non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and mu-HCD as small lymphocytic non-Hodgkin lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Diagnosis of HCD requires documentation of a deleted immunoglobulin heavy chain without a bound light chain in the serum or urine. Prognosis is variable, and no standardized effective treatment programs are available except for alpha-HCD, which in its early stage may respond to antibiotics."
2574	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized therapeutic monoclonal antibody (MAb) that recognizes  the CD52 antigen, expressed on normal and neoplastic lymphocytes, monocytes, and  natural killer cells. In 2001, alemtuzumab was approved in the US and Europe to treat B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) that had been treated previously  with alkylating agents and was refractory to fludarabine. In heavily pretreated patients this MAb is able to produce response rates of about 40%, and in symptomatic, previously untreated patients response rates of more than 80% can be achieved. Alemtuzumab can also be used in patients with CLL as a preparative regimen for stem cell transplantation (SCT) and to prevent graft versus host disease. Moreover its in vivo use before or after SCT may also potentially result in depletion of residual leukemia cells, especially in the autologous setting. Adverse events associated with alemtuzumab include acute first-dose reaction, hematologic toxicity, and infectious complications. Usually they are predictable, manageable, and acceptable in the context of CLL. However, in a significant percentage of patients, cytomegalovirus reactivation occurs during alemtuzumab therapy, and routine weekly monitoring with the polymerase chain reaction methodology is indicated. Moreover, antiviral and antibacterial prophylaxis is mandatory."
2575	"The in vivo mechanism of action of alemtuzumab (anti-CD52; Campath-1H) remains unclear. With rituximab, FCGR3A and FCGR2A high-affinity polymorphisms have been  associated with clinical response in lymphoma but not in CLL, suggesting potential divergent mechanisms of action between these 2 diseases. Herein, we examined FCGR3A (V/V, n = 4; V/F, n = 10; F/F, n = 19) and FCGR2A (A/A, n = 5; H/A, n = 22; H/H, n = 6) polymorphisms in 36 patients with relapsed CLL who were  treated with thrice-weekly alemtuzumab for 12 weeks to assess the potential influence these high-affinity FcgammaR receptor polymorphisms had on response to  alemtuzumab. Response to alemtuzumab was similar regardless of FCGR3A polymorphism (V/V, 25%; V/F, 40%; F/F, 32%) or FCGR2A polymorphism (A/A, 40%; H/A, 32%; H/H, 33%). These findings indicate that FCGR3A and FCGR2A polymorphisms may not predict response to alemtuzumab in CLL. Future studies examining larger cohorts of alemtuzumab-treated patients with CLL will be required to definitively determine the predictive value of specific FCGR polymorphisms to treatment response."
2576	"Fludarabine and rituximab combination therapies in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have yielded promising early results, but no comparative efficacy data relative to standard fludarabine treatment regimens have been reported. To assess the effect of the addition of rituximab to fludarabine therapy, we retrospectively compared the treatment outcome of patients with similar clinical  characteristics enrolled on 2 multicenter clinical trials performed by the Cancer and Leukemia Group B and the US Intergroup that used fludarabine and rituximab (CALGB 9712, n = 104) or fludarabine (CALGB 9011, n = 178). In multivariate analyses controlling for pretreatment characteristics, the patients receiving fludarabine and rituximab had a significantly better progression-free survival (PFS; P < .0001) and overall survival (OS; P = .0006) than patients receiving fludarabine therapy. Two-year PFS probabilities were 0.67 versus 0.45, and 2-year OS probabilities were 0.93 versus 0.81. Infectious toxicity was similar between the 2 treatment approaches. These comparative data are retrospective and could be confounded by differences in supportive care or dissimilar enrollment of genetic  subsets on each trial. Confirmation of these findings will require a prospective  randomized trial comparing fludarabine and rituximab to fludarabine."
2577	"We have assessed autologous stem cell transplantation after treatment with fludarabine in previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This study is the first to enroll previously untreated patients and follow them prospectively. The initial response rate to fludarabine was 82% (94 of 115 patients). Stem cell mobilization was attempted in 88 patients and was successful in 59 (67%). Overall 65 of 115 patients (56%) entered into the study proceeded to autologous transplantation. The early transplant-related mortality rate was 1.5%  (1 of 65 patients). The number of patients in complete remission after transplantation increased from 37% (24 of 65) to 74% (48 of 65), and 26 of 41 patients (63%) who were not in complete remission at the time of their transplantation achieved a complete remission after transplantation. The 5-year overall and disease-free survival rates from transplantation were 77.5% (CI, 57.2%-97.8%) and 51.5% (CI, 33.2%-69.8%), respectively. None of the variables examined at study entry were found to be predictors of either overall or disease-free survival. Sixteen of 20 evaluable patients achieved a molecular remission on a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene rearrangements in the first 6 months following transplantation. Detectable molecular disease by PCR was highly predictive of disease recurrence. It is of concern that 5 of 65 (8%) patients developed posttransplant acute myeloid leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome."
2579	"The introduction of new therapeutic agents, such as fludarabine phosphate (Fludara) and alemtuzumab (MabCampath, Campath), has made it possible to treat B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) more effectively, compared with alkylating agents. However, although an increasing number of patients are able to achieve complete remission (CR), relapse is almost inevitable, because of the re-emergence of the malignant clone from small numbers of residual malignant cells. This phenomenon has introduced a need for a more sensitive assessment of low-level disease which, in turn, has encouraged the development of therapies aimed at the eradication of all residual disease in CR patients. The eradication  of residual disease is associated with improved remission durability and has great potential in offering the possibility of cure. Alemtuzumab is the foundation of many eradication-based treatment approaches because of its ability  to achieve clinical remissions and to successfully purge minimal residual disease (MRD) from both blood and bone marrow in B-CLL patients. This article describes and compares polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and flow cytometric methodologies for the assessment of MRD, and presents data demonstrating that alemtuzumab can eliminate residual malignant cells from blood and bone marrow (whether assessed by PCR or flow cytometry) at the highest levels of sensitivity currently available. The ability to clear MRD from bone marrow in patients achieving clinical CR using alemtuzumab is a significant step forward in the treatment of B-CLL, and supports treatment strategies in which alemtuzumab is used in combination with other agents. Purging of MRD from both blood and bone marrow also enables patients to proceed to autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, a strategy that is able to achieve long-term remission."
2582	"Therapeutic vaccination has challenged immunologists and hematologists for more than two decades and has developed from early animal studies to phase III trials  in some human malignancies. Acute and chronic leukemias are common diseases in the clinical practice but few vaccination protocols have found their way to phase I trials in leukemias. Therapeutic vaccination protocols share the goal of inducing or augmenting leukemia-specific immune responses in the tumor-bearing host in order to potentially achieve therapeutical benefit in these otherwise fatal diseases. Major interest has been drawn to the use of dendritic cell (DC-based immunotherapy protocols relying on the unique properties of these most  powerful antigen-presenting cells. With the bcr-abl oncogene a target of specific immunotherapy has been determined in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), while there is a limited information on leukemia-specific tumor antigens in acute myelogenous and lymphoblastic leukemias. This review will focus on immunotherapy  development in acute and chronic leukemias and will discuss published clinical trials in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and CML."
2583	"The therapeutic landscape of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is changing rapidly. Advances in the understanding of the biology of the CLL cell and development of new and effective therapies for CLL are starting to shift the treatment paradigm from palliation towards therapy with curative intent. Traditional chemotherapy with alkylators and/or nucleoside analogs achieves complete remissions in up to 30% to 40% of patients. Combinations of monoclonal antibodies with chemotherapy agents (chemo-immunotherapy) have almost doubled clinical complete remissions to 60% to 70%. In addition, eradication of residual  disease and achievement of molecular responses have now become possible. New therapeutic agents in development and modifications of stem cell transplant are being evaluated in clinical trials. It is hoped that the combined effort of molecular biology and new therapies will lead to risk-adapted strategies and cure for some patients with CLL."
2584	"B cell-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a heterogeneous disease. This is reflected by the very wide-ranging clinical courses that B-CLL patients experience and by the marked variation in laboratory findings between patients. In this chapter, we will review the various clinical and laboratory parameters that divide B-CLL patients into "subgroups," and correlate the parameters that define them. When feasible, we will also link clinical features to the cellular and genetic characteristics recently defined for these leukemic cells. The discussion is limited to parameters that define phenotypes or subgroups that may  relate to disease activity and clinical outcome."
2585	"For many decades, B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) stood out as a B cell-derived malignancy that was difficult to position within the framework of the available B cell differentiation scheme: First, the histology as well as the  immunophenotype did not quite resemble that of any normal lymphocyte; second, in  contrast to almost all other B cell tumor subtypes, the immunoglobulin variable region (IgV) genes of B-CLL cases could be either unmutated or somatically mutated; third, the genomic lesions observed in B-CLL were markedly distinct from those of the other major B cell malignancies, which typically exhibit balanced chromosome translocations. Recent advances in the characterization of both B-CLL  and normal B cell subpopulations by phenotypic analysis, global gene expression profiling, as well as extensive IgV gene repertoire analyses have shed new light  on the phenotype and the cell derivation of B-CLL and provided novel hypotheses concerning its pathogenesis. Here we summarize recent work relevant to these issues and conclude that B-CLL may be derived from a cell that can be referred to as a marginal zone B cell. Moreover, we propose that the lack of chromosomal translocations in B-CLL may be related to their derivation from marginal zone B cells, since somatic hypermutation and Ig class switch, the processes that generate chromosome translocations in most germinal center (GC)-derived malignancies, are no longer active in marginal zone B cells. Also, we discuss similarities and differences between B-CLL and hairy cell leukemia (HCL) and suggest that also HCL may be derived from a post-GC memory or marginal zone B cell."
2586	"In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), genetic analyses by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and DNA sequencing have greatly improved our understanding of pathogenic events and prognostic markers. On the one hand, there are genomic aberrations, which are detected in over 80% of CLL cases, and genes potentially involved in pathogenesis were identified with ATM in a subset of cases with 11q deletion and p53 in cases with 17p13 deletion. Genetic subgroups with distinct clinical features have been identified, such as the 11q deletion that is associated with marked lymphadenopathy and rapid disease progression, while the 17p deletion predicts treatment failure with alkylating agents as well as fludarabine and short survival times. On the other hand, there is the mutation status of the VH genes that allows the separation of patients into long (mutated  VH) or short (unmutated VH) survival times. V-gene usage, VDJ structure, and gene expression differences in the two subgroups allow insights into differential pathogenic mechanisms and provide further prognostic information (V3-21 usage, ZAP-70 expression). Most importantly, the VH mutation status and genomic abnormalities have been shown to be of independent prognostic value in multivariate analysis, appear to allow outcome predication irrespective of the clinical stage, and may therefore allow a risk assessment of individual patients  early in the course of the disease."
2587	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia accounts for almost 30% of all adult leukemia cases  in the United States and Western Europe. Although several common genomic abnormalities in CLL have been identified, mutational and functional analysis of  corresponding genes so far have not proved their involvement in CLL. Our latest studies demonstrated functional involvement of Tcl1 oncoprotein and microRNA genes in the pathogenesis of CLL. Deregulated expression of Tcl1 in transgenic mice resulted in CLL. These CLL tumors showed abnormalities in expression of murine microRNA genes mmu-mir-15a and mmu-mir-16-1. Interestingly, human homologs of these genes, mir-15a and mir-16-1, located at the chromosome 13q14 are also deleted in human CLL samples. In this review we summarize and discuss these new developments. These recently emerged insights into the molecular mechanisms of CLL will allow for the development of new approaches to treat this disease."
2588	"BACKGROUND: Morphologically malignant lymphocytes in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are highly suggestive of central nervous system involvement by lymphoid malignancy. Although flow cytometry is increasingly used to detect a monoclonal B-cell population in the CSF, the significance of this finding in the absence of  morphologically identifiable malignant cells is unknown. METHODS: We reviewed CSF flow cytometric results in 32 patients studied at a single institution over 5 years and identified patients who had monoclonal B-cells in the CSF. Clinical presentation and course were reviewed. RESULTS: Twelve patients had a monoclonal B-cell population in the CSF, but only  three had clinical evidence of malignant CNS disease. Of the other nine patients, 4 had nonmalignant neurologic disease and five had a lymphoproliferative disorder: chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 4) and mantle cell lymphoma (n = 1).  In patients who had chronic lymphocytic leukemia and mantle cell lymphoma, the monoclonal B-cell population was small and had an immunophenotype identical to that of circulating malignant B cells. None of these nine patients developed clinical evidence of malignant CNS involvement during follow-up. CONCLUSION: In patients who have indolent B-cell malignancies, the presence of monoclonal B cells in the CSF may not be diagnostic of clinically significant CNS involvement by a lymphoid malignancy."
2589	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is characterized by accumulation of clonal, malignant CD5(+), CD23(+) B cells. In vivo, these cells have an antiapoptotic phenotype (high levels of Bcl-2 and low levels of proapoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins, such as Bax). Abnormal B cells accumulate due to altered apoptosis regulation rather than to increased proliferation. However, it is unclear whether there are inherent Bcl-2 apoptotic pathway defects. With in vitro culture, these B cells rapidly apoptosis. METHODS: To investigate apoptosis regulation, Bcl-2, Bax, mitochondrial membrane  potential, annexin V, and caspase activation were simultaneous monitored in individual cells during in vitro apoptosis. RESULTS: With in vitro culture, 30% to 50% of B cells were apoptotic at 24 h compared with fewer than 10% of T cells. Apoptotic B cells showed dramatic Bax upregulation and slight Bcl-2 decreases accompanied by decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and increased activated caspase-3 protein levels. Caspase-3 and caspase-9 activities were increased 18- to 51-fold and 6- to 11-fold, respectively, after 24 h of culture. Caspase-8 showed limited or no activation (less than fourfold). CONCLUSIONS: These data show that in vitro apoptosis of CLL B cells occurs through a well-characterized Bcl-2 regulatory pathway consistent with that pathway being functional. Further, these cells' antiapoptotic phenotype is dependent on the in vivo environment, potentially involving paracrine/autocrine interactions."
2591	"BACKGROUND: Cutaneous cancers exhibit a much higher incidence in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia than in nonleukemic patients. Squamous and basal cell carcinomas also exhibit greater subclinical tumor extension in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to estimate and compare the recurrence rates of squamous cell carcinoma after Mohs' surgery in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia compared with those in controls and to evaluate differences  among squamous cell carcinoma size and histologic grade. METHODS: We retrospectively assessed the clinical histories, postoperative notes, and surgical photographs of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and controls matched (2:1) for age, sex, and surgical year. Both patients and controls underwent Mohs' surgery for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck at the Mayo Clinic between March 1988 and April 1999. RESULTS: Twenty-eight patients who underwent Mohs' surgery for 57 squamous cell carcinomas had 7 recurrences. The cumulative incidence of recurrence on a per-tumor basis was 4.3% at 1 year, 14.8% at 3 years, and 19.0% at 5 years. Squamous cell carcinoma was seven times more likely to recur in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia than in controls (p = .003). The distribution of tumor histologic grade was not significantly different between patients and controls (p = .39). Maximum preoperative tumor diameters were clinically similar  between patients and controls (median 15 mm vs 14 mm; p = .04). CONCLUSION: The recurrence rates of squamous cell carcinoma were significantly higher in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Squamous cell carcinomas in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia did not exhibit a significant difference in histologic grade or clinical difference in preoperative tumor size. Close surveillance for squamous cell carcinoma recurrence is warranted in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
2592	"The U.S. government recently implemented rules for awarding compensation to individuals with cancer who were exposed to ionizing radiation while working in the nuclear weapons complex. Under these rules, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is considered to be a nonradiogenic form of cancer. In other words, workers who develop CLL automatically have their compensation claim rejected because the  compensation rules hold that the risk of radiation-induced CLL is zero. In this article we review molecular, clinical, and epidemiologic evidence regarding the radiogenicity of CLL. We note that current understanding of radiation-induced tumorigenesis and the etiology of lymphatic neoplasia provides a strong mechanistic basis for expecting that ionizing radiation exposure increases CLL risk. The clinical characteristics of CLL, including prolonged latency and morbidity periods and a low case fatality rate, make it relatively difficult to evaluate associations between ionizing radiation and CLL risk via epidemiologic methods. The epidemiologic evidence of association between external exposure to ionizing radiation and CLL is weak. However, epidemiologic findings are consistent with a hypothesis of elevated CLL mortality risk after a latency and morbidity period that spans several decades. Our findings in this review suggest  that there is not a persuasive basis for the conclusion that CLL is a nonradiogenic form of cancer."
2593	"The vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) transduction pathway may be very active in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells and contributes to their enhanced survival. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1 (VEGFR-1)  and receptor-2 (VEGFR-2), are the high-affinity VEGF receptors, which play an important role in de novo blood vessel formation and hematopoietic cell development. The aim of our study was to compare the concentration of VEGF, VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2 in the serum of 83, never-treated B-CLL patients in different stage of disease according to Rai classification, and 20 healthy volunteers. Of all the cytokines only the serum concentration of VEGF was found to be significantly higher in the CLL group when compared to the control group (median  468.2 pg/mL and 246.9 pg/mL, respectively) (p = 0.01). In the group of CLL patients, the serum concentrations of VEGF and VEGFR-2 were significantly higher  in patients in Rai stage III and IV (median 890.0 pg/mL and 4680.4 pg/mL respectively) than in patients in Rai stage 0-II (347.8 pg/mL and 2411.6 pg/mL respectively) (p<0.0001). In the entire group of CLL patients, we have found a strong, positive correlation between the serum level of VEGF and VEGFR-2 (p = 0.00001, R = 0.46). We have also found a positive correlation between the number  of lymphocytes in the peripheral blood of CLL patients and the level of VEGF (p = 0.05, R = 0.24) and VEGFR2 (p = 0.02, R = 0.29).IN CONCLUSION: VEGF and VEGF R2,  but not VEGF R1, may have an important influence on the course of B-CLL."
2594	"No population-based study has assessed the prognostic impact on survival of the CD19 positive lymphocyte count, evaluated by immunophenotyping at diagnosis, in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Aiming at addressing this issue, we  investigated the clinical outcome of a well-defined population of B-CLL patients. Survival of B-CLL patients, diagnosed between 1990 and 1999 and recorded by the Registry of Hematological Malignancies of the Côte d'Or, was analysed applying Cox's regression model to the 237 included cases and to the 195 Binet stage A patients. To assess simultaneously the predictive value of each parameter on the  risk of disease progression and on the risk of death, we completed this analysis  by applying a three-states homogeneous Markov model to the whole study population. Analysis of the entire population showed that age (p < 0.001), Binet  stage (p = 0.008) and CD19 positive lymphocyte count (p = 0.038) were three independent prognostic factors. However, in stage A patients, only progression into a more advanced stage, analysed as a time-dependent variable, and age had a  clear impact on survival (p < 0.001 for both). Markov model revealed that an increased CD19 positive lymphocyte count increased the risk of disease progression in stage A patients (p = 0.002) but did not have direct impact on survival of either stage A patients with stable disease or stage B or C patients. An increased CD19 positive lymphocyte count at diagnosis is a marker of an increased risk of disease progression in stage A patients. Thus, it can be a useful tool for the clinical management of these patients."
2595	"For unknown reasons the incidence of non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (NHL) has increased  during the last decades. Conditions with impaired immune functions have been associated with an increased risk of malignant lymphomas. Interactions between the central nervous, immune, and endocrine systems have been recently identified, and the potential physiological importance of these interactions is being explored. In this prospective cohort study the potential association between an increasing incidence of depressive disorders and the development of malignant lymphoma is being explored. The participants were part of the Swedish manpower on sick leave between 1988 and 2000 with depressive disease for more than two weeks  were followed until a diagnosis of lymphoid malignancy, death, emigration, or end of follow-up period. The final cohort included 87,677 individuals with 373,135 years of follow-up. There were 80 cases of NHL, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) with 70 cases expected. The first year of follow-up showed a slightly increased risk of NHL, which most probably can be interpreted as initial symptoms of lymphoma. We conclude that the increase in the incidence of malignant lymphomas observed during the last decades seems not to be associated with a concurrent increase of depressive disorders."
2596	"The ZAP-70 protein is a member of the Syk/ZAP protein tyrosine kinase family, normally expressed in T cells and NK cells but not found in normal, mature B cells. The protein plays a critical role in the initiation of T-cell signaling. Leukemic cells from patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) that expressed nonmutated immunoglobulin V genes were found to express levels of  ZAP-70 protein that were comparable to those detected in T cells of healthy adults. The ZAP-70 protein expression can be evaluated by flow cytometry and may  be used as a prognostic marker in B-CLL patients. We modified the method of immunocytochemical assessment of ZAP-70 expression. The traditional two-step method with monoclonal anti-ZAP-70 antibody in the first step followed by FITC-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG was changed for one-step method with monoclonal anti-ZAP-70 antibody labeled by Zenon Alexa Fluor 488. The method is simple and fast. The major advantage of Zenon labeling technique is its compatibility with simultaneous staining of surface antigens. The cells may be earlier immunostained for CD3, CD19 and/or CD5 to compare of the ZAP-70 kinase expression in B and T cells."
2597	"For the past ten years, there has been a dynamic development of new therapeutic compounds and prognostic parameters for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Hematologists and oncologists are challenged to use these new possibilities for an optimized, risk- and fitness-adapted treatment strategy, with the goal of achieving long-term remissions and preserving a good quality of life. This review is intended to summarize the current knowledge on first-line treatment of CLL."
2598	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) follows an extremely variable course with survival ranging from months to decades. Recently, there has been major progress  in the identification of molecular and cellular markers that may predict the tendency for disease progression in CLL patients. In particular, the mutational profile of Ig genes and some cytogenetic abnormalities have been found to be important predictors of prognosis in CLL. However, this progress has raised new questions about the biology and prognosis of the disease, some of which are addressed here. Such questions include: 1) What is the role of the B-cell receptor (BCR) in CLL pathogenesis? 2) Is CLL one disease? 3) Is CLL an accumulative disease? 4) What is the normal counterpart of the CLL B lymphocyte?  5) Have the Rai and Binet staging systems become obsolete? 6) Which is the best surrogate for Ig mutational profiles?"
2599	"The B220 isoform of CD45, a pan B-cell marker in mice, is expressed by only a subset of human B cells that do not express the memory B-cell marker CD27, suggesting that it is a differentiation-specific isoform of CD45. We examined normal human peripheral blood B cells, secondary lymphoid tissue, and a range of  human B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders for the expression of B220 by flow cytometric immunophenotyping and immunohistochemical staining. We found that a subset of human B cells in peripheral blood is positive for B220 by flow cytometric immunophenotypic analysis. In reactive lymphoid tissues, B220 is expressed by B cells occupying the mantle zones and by a subpopulation of germinal center cells, but, in contrast, marginal zone B cells in the spleen do not express B220. Of 94 cases of B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders, 33 (35%) were positive for B220 by flow cytometric immunophenotypic analysis, including most cases of marginal zone lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and lymphoplasmacytic  lymphoma. In contrast, all cases of precursor B lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma,  mantle cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma were negative for B220. Immunohistochemical staining for B220 correlated with flow cytometric analysis for all cases studied by both methods. Our data demonstrate that B220 is expressed in a select subset of normal, reactive B cells in a pattern that is consistent with a marker of naive B cells. However, this restricted expression pattern is not seen in B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Discordance between the B220 expression patterns of normal mantle and  marginal zone B cells and their respective neoplastic counterparts may aid in the distinction between normal and neoplastic proliferations at these anatomical sites."
2600	"Since the intrinsically poor immunogenicity of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells might be a key factor in allowing them to avoid immune control mechanisms,  the development of methods to enhance CLL cell immunogenicity might lead to improved disease control. The ability of CLL cells to stimulate T cells was increased significantly by the protein kinase C (PKC) agonist phorbol myristic acetate (PMA). However, under serum-free conditions, PMA-activated CLL cells died within 48 hours. Antioxidants, such as 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME), or fetal calf serum could prevent the death of these cells but caused them to enter distinct states of differentiation. In the presence of 2-ME, PMA-activated CLL cells extended dendritic-like protrusions and exhibited increased T-cell stimulatory capacity. In the presence of serum, PMA-activated CLL cells developed fewer dendrites, made less IL-10 and more IL-12 p40 mRNA transcripts, and showed an increased capacity to induce IFN-gamma production by T cells. The effects of serum on the promotion of type 1 immune responses by phorbol ester-activated CLL  cells were dominant and correlated with activation of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway. Other PKC agonists, such as Bryostatin-1 and a synthetic Bryostatin analog (Picolog), had similar effects on CLL cells. The observation that CLL cells can acquire features of dendritic cells that promote type 1 immunity may find clinical application in immunotherapeutic strategies for this disease."
2601	"Two novel chromosomal translocations were identified in 2 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Case 1: 60 year-old male, stage Rai 0/Binet A, with mutated immunoglobulin heavy (IgH) and lambda (Iglambda) light chain genes; karyotype: 46, XY, t(9;12)(q12;p11) [3]/ 46, XY [22]. Case 2: 56 year-old male, stage Rai 2/Binet B, with mutated IgH and unmutated Iglambda genes; karyotype: 46, XY, add(10)(q26), t(13;18)(q14;q21) [8]/ 46, XY [27]. Although both translocations are novel, the involved breakpoints (especially 13q14 and 18q21) have been reported to participate in various aberrations in CLL patients. Aberrations affecting bands 9q12 and 12p11, as in case 1, are generally rare."
2602	"Using differential scanning calorimetry we analyzed the thermal profiles of nuclei from normal and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia mononuclear cells. Intact nuclear fraction of normal mononuclear cells is characterized by four thermal transitions, i.e., at 60, 70, 83 and 103 degrees C. Leukemic nuclear samples revealed the transitions at 67 and 83 degrees C, however, in more aggressive stage of the disease additional thermal peaks at 76 and 93 degrees C were observed. Our very preliminary results revealed that mononuclear cell nuclear fraction from blood of patients responding to the used therapy, i.e., cladribine alone or its combination with mitoxantrone and cyclophosphamide indicates decrease (or even loss) of transition at 93 degrees C concomitant with  increase of transition at 76 degrees C. A complementary study showed that in mononuclear cells of patients who appeared to be sensitive to chemotherapy the decrease of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein expression and signs of apoptotic morphology were observed."
2603	"Measurements of fluorescence resonance energy transfer efficiency (E), via fluorescence polarization, have been applied to distinguish between chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients and healthy persons. Capping of Concanavalin-A receptors is more pronounced in normal lymphocytes than in those of CLL patients. Membrane capping decreases the distance between donor and acceptor molecules embedded in the membrane (r), and thus increases the monitored energy transfer efficiency (E approximately 1/r6). Blood samples of 10 healthy subjects and 16 CLL patients were examined. In the healthy subjects, the mean E value for capped lymphocytes was 19 +/- 3, whereas in the CLL patients it was significantly lower (8 +/- 5) (P < 0.01)."
2604	"Proapoptotic activity of anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody, alemtuzumab (ALT) as well as ALT-affected apoptosis-regulatory mechanisms were assessed in tumor cells from 36 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Cells were treated in vitro  for 24-48 h with ALT alone or in combination with rituximab (RTX), or purine nucleoside analogues (PNA), fludarabine and cladribine. Moreover, eight ALT-treated patients were examined in vivo. In 22/36 patients with the pre-treatment overexpression of Bax, Bak and Bid proteins, ALT induced a distinct (more than 50% from the baseline) increase in the incidence of apoptosis after 24 h of in vitro treatment. ALT-attributed CLL cell apoptosis was also detected after 24 h from in vivo ALT administration, with significantly downregulated Bcl-2 (P = 0.012) and Mcl-1 (P = 0.031). ALT combined with PNA or RTX exerted significantly higher proapoptotic effect in vitro than single agents, downregulating FLIP and Bcl-2 (ALT + PNA) or significantly increasing Bax expression (ALT + RTX; P = 0.007). In conclusion, the evidence of apoptotic CLL cells death in response to ALT, with deregulation of intrinsic apoptotic pathway, is presented. ALT and PNA or RTX trigger complementary changes in expression of proteins regulating cell propensity to undergo apoptosis, what provides molecular rationale for combining ALT with those agents."
2605	"Several surveys have defined chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients as a high-risk patient population for developing second neoplasms. As possible mechanisms underlying the increased risk of specific second malignancies in CLL patients the immunodeficiency associated with disease is generally proposed. As far as secondary acute leukemia is concerned, greater insight into the molecular  pathogenesis of therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (AML) developing in CLL would allow to avoid treatment regimens that can lead to this complication. Richter's syndrome continues to be a fatal and highly refractory to chemotherapy  disease complicating the clinical course of CLL. Therefore, experimental approaches of therapy should be considered in its treatment. Given the prolonged  survival of patients with CLL, it is important to recognize early a second cancer especially whether new symptoms or physical findings arise."
2606	"The genetic basis of familial CLL is poorly understood and to date no gene which  when mutated in the germline has been unambiguously shown to confer susceptibility to the disease. Dok1 maps to chromosome 2p13, a region commonly rearranged in CLL. Dok1 inhibits MAP kinase activity, down-regulates cell proliferation and has a suppressive effect on cellular transformation and B-cell  signalling pathways. A recent report has implicated mutation of Dok1 in the aetiology of CLL. To examine the proposition that germline mutations in Dok1 act  as high penetrance susceptibility alleles for CLL we screened 140 familial cases  for functional sequence variants. No pathogenic mutations were detected. This result indicates that germline mutations in Dok1 are unlikely to cause an inherited predisposition to CLL."
2607	"Although reciprocal chromosomal translocations are not typical for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), we identified the novel t(1;6)(p35.3;p25.2) in eight patients with this disorder. Interestingly, all cases showed lack of somatically mutated IgV(H). Clinical, morphological, immunologic, and genetic features of these patients are described. Briefly, the age ranged from 33 to 81 years (median: 62.5 years) and the sex ratio was 6M:2F. Most of the patients (6/8) presented with advanced clinical stage. Therapy was required in seven cases. After a median follow-up of 28 months, five patients are alive and three died from disease evolution. Three cases developed transformation into diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Translocation t(1;6) was found as the primary karyotypic abnormality in three patients. Additional chromosomal aberrations included changes frequently found in unmutated B-CLL, that is, del(11)(q), trisomy 12 and  17p aberrations. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis performed in seven cases allowed us to map the t(1;6) breakpoints to the 1p35.3 and 6p25.2 chromosomal bands, respectively. The latter breakpoint was located in the genomic region coding for MUM1/IRF4, one of the key regulators of lymphocyte development  and proliferation, suggesting involvement of this gene in the t(1;6). Molecular characterization of the t(1;6)(p35.3;p25.2), exclusively found in unmutated subtype of B-CLL, is in progress."
2608	"Fludarabine is considered the treatment of choice for most patients with chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We have analyzed the role of plasma membrane transporters in nucleoside-derived drug bioavailability and action in CLL cells.  Among the known plasma membrane transporters, we have previously observed a significant correlation between fludarabine uptake via ENT carriers and ex vivo sensitivity of CLL cells to fludarabine, although mRNA amounts of the equilibrative nucleoside transporters hENT1 and hENT2 do not show any predictive  response to treatment. In this study, using polyclonal monospecific antibodies we have observed a significant correlation between the expression of hENT2 by Western blot and fludarabine uptake via hENT carriers and also with ex vivo sensitivity of CLL cells to fludarabine. These results suggest that the equilibrative nucleoside transporter hENT2 plays a role in fludarabine responsiveness in CLL patients."
2611	"Mature B-cell malignancies stem from B cells transformed at various developmental stages, accounting for the wide range of heterogeneous features observed in the different disease entities. Analysis of the immunoglobulin (Ig) genes can facilitate the identification of the normal B-cell counterpart of lymphomas and leukemias, as Ig genes acquire somatic hypermutation in germinal centers during the immune response to antigen. Therefore, lymphomas that derive from a naïve, pregerminal center B cell lack somatic hypermutation in the clonal Ig gene, whereas germinal center-derived lymphomas, such as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma  and follicular lymphoma, display somatic hypermutation of their Ig genes. Furthermore, biases in the Ig variable heavy chain gene repertoire in B-cell malignancies can indicate a possible antigenic influence in pathogenesis. Much work has been accomplished in the past decade to characterize the Ig genes in different lymphoma entities, and the separation of chronic lymphocytic leukemia into two prognostic subgroups in the late 1990s based on the presence or absence  of somatic hypermutation led to investigations of Ig genes in larger cohorts of previously uncharacterized entities, such as mantle cell lymphoma. This review will briefly discuss relevant aspects of normal B-cell development, and then focus on what can be ascertained from Ig studies of newly characterized entities, mantle cell lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/ Waldenström's macroglobulinemia, and splenic marginal zone lymphoma, from the point of view of cellular origin and variable heavy chain gene restrictions as a  sign of antigen involvement. Correlations with gene expression profiling data and the clinical implications of Ig gene studies, when relevant, will be mentioned. The recent evidence that an alternative pathway of gaining somatic hypermutation  might exist is also considered, and the implications this has for understanding the cellular origin of B-cell malignancies."
2612	"T-cell dysfunction in B-CLL patients might be attributed to altered expression of components of the TCR/CD3 complex and associated intracellular tyrosine kinases.  Four-color flow cytometry was applied to the expression of these molecules as well as the T-cell regulatory cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-4) in B-CLL patients with indolent and progressive disease. Intracellular levels [mean fluorescent intensity (MFI)] of IFN-gamma and IL-4 in both CD4 and CD8 T cells of both patient groups were significantly higher than in healthy donors. Absolute number  of IL-4 producing CD4 T cells in patients with indolent was significantly higher  than in healthy donors. The expression level (MFI) of the CD3-zeta chain was higher in patients than in normal donors as well as ZAP-70 in patients with indolent disease as compared to healthy donors and progressive patients. No significant difference was noted in the expression of p56lck, p59fyn, and PI3-kinase between healthy donors and patients or between the patient subgroups.  The results indicate multiple T-cell abnormalities especially in indolent-stage B-CLL suggesting a state of chronic and aberrant activation. This information might be of significance when studying the immunobiology of B-CLL as well as developing new therapeutic approaches."
2613	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clinically heterogeneous disease with many patients surviving for decades with minimal or no treatment, whereas others succumb rapidly to their disease despite therapy. In recent years, new molecular prognostic factors have emerged in CLL that have significantly improved the subgrouping of the disease. One of the most important molecular predictors, the immunoglobulin V(H) gene mutation status, divides CLL into two prognostic groups, depending on the presence or absence of somatic hypermutation, where unmutated V(H) genes are associated with considerably worse prognosis than mutated V(H) genes. An exception to this appears to be CLL patients utilizing the V(H)3-21 gene as they have poor outcome irrespective of mutation status. Surrogate markers for the VH gene mutation status have been suggested, such as CD38 and ZAP-70 expression. However, the CD38 level was later shown to display poor correlation to the mutation status, although it may still serve as an independent prognostic factor. More promising is the expression levels of ZAP-70, which appears to be both a strong surrogate marker for V(H) gene mutation status, although discrepancies have been reported, as well as an independent prognostic marker. Immunoglobulin gene analysis has also indicated the possibility of antigen selection in CLL considering the significant bias in V(H) gene usage. Intriguingly, the V(H)3-21+ group and several other CLL subsets using certain V(H) genes was recently reported to display strikingly restricted immunoglobulin  gene features, in both their heavy and light chain gene rearrangements, thus further high-lighting the possible role of antigen involvement in CLL development."
2615	"Tumor-specific chromosomal abnormalities are attracting a large interest owing to the diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic importance. The development of molecular techniques, e.g., fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), have improved the detection of specific chromosomal abnormalities in chronic lymphocytic leukemic (CLL). By using FISH, the problem with tumor cells with low  mitotic rate is avoided since this method readily detects clonal aberrations also in nondividing, interphase cells. Three different types of probes are used: (1) centromeric probes for numerical chromosome abnormalities, (2) whole chromosome paints, and (3) locus-specific probes. The DNA probes are labeled with fluorochromes and the signals yielded are strong enough to enable analysis of interphase cells. These DNA probes may be directed towards any defined chromosomal region and this chapter will in detail describe the FISH method as a  detector of trisomy 12 in CLL."
2616	"Beyond the morphological, immunophenotypic, and genetic information used for the  diagnosis of lymphoid malignancies, molecular analyses have deepened our insights into the development of B-cell lymphomas. We have learned that B-cell tumors can  be grouped according to the mutational status of their immunoglobulin variable (V) region genes, and this has become an important prognostic tool in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The analysis of V genes also has allowed us to more precisely place B-cell lymphomas relative to their normal B-cell counterparts and to the germinal center where somatic hypermutation takes place. It has become evident that many of the common B-cell tumors arise at this site and are able to  respond to stimuli, which govern normal B-cells. In this chapter, we focus on the analysis of V genes in follicular lymphomas based on the experience in our laboratory and provide a detailed guide for this analysis."
2617	"Determining the clonal origins of malignant B-cells will have an impact on disease understanding and management. In this regard, immunoglobulin variable (V) region gene analysis already is having a significant impact in delineating the tumor cell of origin. It can identify, among other features whether such a cell has undergone somatic mutation, which usually occurs within germinal centres. Remarkably, in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the mutational status of V genes has allowed researchers to identify two subsets of disease, one originating from an unmutated B-cell with a markedly poorer disease outcome and the other from a mutated B-cell, which associates with long-term survival. The V gene status in CLL thus provides a robust indicator of disease outcome, which is beginning to shape clinical treatment. This chapter describes in detail the methodology for determining V gene usage in CLL, from acquisition of patient sample to generating the V-gene readout."
2618	"BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) can relapse even after aggressive therapy and autografts. It is commonly assumed that to prevent relapse the level of minimal residual disease (MRD) should be as low as possible. To evaluate MRD, highly sensitive quantitative assays are needed. AIM: The aim of the study was to develop a robust and sensitive method for detection of the clonal immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IgV(H)) rearrangement in CLL and to introduce a highly sensitive and specific methodology for MRD monitoring in patients with CLL who undergo intensive treatment. METHODS: As a prerequisite for MRD detection, touch-down reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR using degenerate primers were used for the diagnostic identification of  (H) gene rearrangement(s). For quantitative MRD detection in 18 patients, we employed a real-time RT-PCR assay (RQ-PCR) making use of patient-specific primers and the cost-saving Sybr-Green reporter dye (SG). For precise calibration of RQ-PCR, patient-specific IgV(H) sequences were cloned. RESULTS: Touch-down RT-PCR with degenerate primers allowed the successful detection of IgV(H) clonal rearrangement(s) in 252 of 257 (98.1%) diagnostic samples. Biallelic rearrangements were found in 27 of 252 (10.7%) cases. Degenerate primers used for the identification of clonal expansion at diagnosis were not sensitive enough for MRD detection. In contrast, our RQ-PCR assay using  patient-specific primers and SG reached the sensitivity of 10(-)(6). We demonstrated MRD in each patient tested, including four of four patients in complete remission following autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and three of three following allogeneic 'mini'-HSCT. Increments in MRD might herald relapse; aggressive chemotherapy could induce molecular remission. CONCLUSIONS: Our touch-down RT-PCR has higher efficiency to detect clonal IgV(H)  rearrangements including the biallelic ones. MRD quantitation of IgV(H) expression using SG-based RQ-PCR represents a highly specific, sensitive, and economic alternative to the current quantitative methods."
2619	"Immunoglobulin kappa (IGK) locus rearrangements were analyzed in parallel on cDNA/genomic DNA in 188 kappa- and 103 lambda-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)  cases. IGKV-KDE and IGKJ-C-intron-KDE rearrangements were also analyzed on genomic DNA. In kappa-CLL, only 3 of 188 cases carried double in-frame IGKV-J transcripts: in such cases, the possibility that leukemic cells expressed more than one kappa chain cannot be excluded. Twenty-eight kappa-CLL cases also carried nonexpressed (nontranscribed and/or out-of-frame) IGKV-J rearrangements.  Taking IGKV-J, IGKV-KDE, and IGKJ-C-intron-KDE rearrangements together, 38% of kappa-CLL cases carried biallelic IGK locus rearrangements. In lambda-CLL, 69 IGKV-J rearrangements were detected in 64 of 103 cases (62%); 24 rearrangements (38.2%) were in-frame. Four cases carried in-frame IGKV-J transcripts but retained monotypic light-chain expression, suggesting posttranscriptional regulation of allelic exclusion. In all, taking IGKV-J, IGKV-KDE, and IGKJ-C-intron-KDE rearrangements together, 97% of lambda-CLL cases had at least 1 rearranged IGK allele, in keeping with normal cells. IG repertoire comparisons in kappa- versus lambda-CLL revealed that CLL precursor cells tried many rearrangements on the same IGK allele before they became lambda producers. Thirteen of 28 and 26 of 69 non-expressed sequences in, respectively, kappa- or lambda-CLL had < 100% homology to germline. This finding might be considered as evidence for secondary rearrangements occurring after the onset of somatic hypermutation, at least in some cases. The inactivation of potentially functional IGKV-J joints by secondary rearrangements indicates active receptor editing in CLL and provides further evidence for the role of antigen in CLL immunopathogenesis."
2620	"The detailed analysis of the biologic features led to a rapid increase in clinically relevant information in CLL. The recognition of the prognostic role of IgVH hypermutation status and related phenotypic changes (CD38, ZAP-70 expression) as well as of chromosome abnormalities defined by cytogenetic analysis enabled a refined classification of the disease. Improvements in karyotyping and the introduction of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in  routine hematological diagnostics raised the detection rate of chromosomal aberrations to approx. 60-80% in CLL. Among them, deletions of 17p and 11q have been associated with unfavorable prognosis. The deletion of the p53 locus (17p13) was described as the strongest independent predictor for aggressive behavior, resistance to chemotherapy and early death. On the contrary, an isolated deletion at 13q14 or a normal karyotype was related with a long survival. Classical and molecular cytogenetic analysis became an important tool for individual risk estimation. Unlike any other approaches, cytogenetic monitoring reflects the genetic heterogeneity and clonal growth dynamics during the course of the disease."
2621	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia in the Western world and is characterized by a progressive accumulation of functionally incompetent monoclonal lymphocytes. Renal involvement has been described in CLL but is uncommon. Granulomatous interstitial nephritis is a rare but characteristic hallmark of certain diseases such as sarcoidosis and tuberculosis. These epithelial reactions have also been reported with medications, infections,  inflammation, Wegener's granulomatosis, and jejunoileal bypass. We present a 74-year-old woman with a stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia who developed acute renal failure following the initiation of alendronate. The renal biopsy revealed  an acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis. Infectious and inflammatory etiologies were ruled out. Hemodialysis was required despite discontinuation of all medications. Partial recovery of renal function occurred after 6 weeks of prednisone therapy and cyclophosphamide. This report describes a unique case of acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis and leukemic cell kidney infiltration  by CLL."
2623	"PURPOSE: Although many studies demonstrated expression of TNF family members in the course of B-CLL, there is a little known about relationships between soluble  forms of these proteins. Furthermore, there is no study reported on effects of used therapy on this relation. The present study was designed to asses the relationships between the serum concentrations of sFas, sFasL and sTRAIL in patients with B-CLL regarding their correlation with clinical stage and used therapy. MATERIAL AND METHODS: We studied 40 patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) at diagnosis, before treatment and four weeks after therapy. To  measure sFas, sFasL and sTRAIL levels in serum commercially available ELISA kits  were used. RESULTS: We found increased concentrations of sFas in sera of all patients with B-CLL before treatment in comparison to the control group. There were no significant differences in concentrations of sFasL and sTRAIL between patients and control group. Increased sFasL concentrations after FC and CC therapy as well as decreased concentrations after 2CdA therapy in comparison to values before treatment were found. The concentrations of sTRAIL after FC and CC therapy were higher than those in patients before treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Results obtained suggest that relationship between sFas, sFasL and sTRAIL in sera of patients with B-CLL before treatment may facilitate the growth  B leukemic cells. Changes in these relations after therapy with FC and CC can make a contribution to inhibit B cells growth on the apoptosis way in this patient group."
2624	"Corneal deposits in association with paraproteinemias have been well described in the ophthalmic literature. Recent reports in the renal literature have described  immunotactoid deposition associated with glomerulopathy-organized microtubular deposits of IgGkappa that measured 32-50 nm in diameter on renal biopsies. We present a case of corneal immunotactoid deposition in the setting of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and review previous reports of corneal deposition in the setting of systemic paraproteinemia, highlighting the etiology, differential diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of corneal involvement. We propose the use of the term immunotactoid keratopathy to describe corneal IgGkappa deposits appearing as tubular, electron-dense, crystalloid deposits with a central lucent  core on electron microscopy and suggest that these patients undergo directed systemic workup to evaluate for potential etiologies of their systemic paraproteinemia. To illustrate the spectrum of paraprotein deposition in the cornea, and to emphasize the importance of ophthalmic evaluation in the setting of systemic paraproteinemias, we include a case of a 44-year-old man with immunoprotein corneal deposition who was subsequently diagnosed with multiple myeloma."
2625	"Peripheral blood smears prepared routinely from nonneoplastic and leukemia cases  were studied using the scanning electron microscope (SEM). The peripheral blood glass slide is examined directly in the SEM following application of a thin carbon coat. The morphology of the nonneoplastic and neoplastic smears is described in detail utilizing the SEM secondary electron detector and backscattered electron detectors. Certain cell features are measured as well with the use of the measuring software resident in the SEM. The appearance of the SEM  images of peripheral smear slides is compared to that of slides from fixed, processed, and sectioned bone marrow cases previously reported. The problem of cell constituent loss and overall shrinkage in the routinely processed and sectioned material is noted. The lack of these problems in the peripheral blood smear slides and their better appearance is emphasized. The resemblance of neoplastic cells to their normal counterparts is discussed. The monoblast resembles the normal monocyte but both cell size and nuclear size are greater; the moderately reticulated nuclear chromatin distinguishes the monoblast. Neoplastic lymphoid cells maintain the wispy extensions of the cytoplasm perimeter resembling microvilli and thereby differ from myeloid and monocytic cells. The neoplastic lymphoid cell shows coarse clumping of nuclear chromatin and in some instances coarse chromatin anastomoses to distinguish it from the normal lymphocyte. Lymphoid cells of acute lymphoblastic leukemia are 33% larger  than those of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and normal lymphocytes. The neoplastic myeloblast has a finely granular nuclear chromatin, maintains a smooth cytoplasmic perimeter, and may show cytoplasmic reticulations. The myeloblast differs from the lymphoblast in that the former has a smooth cytoplasm perimeter. Further, myeloblasts show nuclear lobulations more frequently than lymphoblasts.  Comparison of SEM findings with the three case studies by flow cytometry indicates satisfactory correlation. In case 15, flow cytometry indicated a monocyte subset positive for CD14 and CD64 among the neoplastic myeloid forms. A  candidate for such a cell is recognized morphologically as well. The availability for SEM ultrastructural study of all the cells, both neoplastic and nonneoplastic, on a routine diagnostic smear slide is emphasized."
2626	"The somatic hypermutation (SMH) status of the immunoglobulin (Ig) V(H) genes can  divide chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) into two prognostic subsets, with mutated V(H) genes display superior survival compared to unmutated cases. Biased  V(H) gene usage has also been reported in CLL which may reflect antigen selection. In a V(H) gene analysis of 265 CLL cases we confirmed the prognostic impact of the V(H) mutation status and found preferential V(H) gene usage in both the mutated and unmutated subset. Interestingly, CLL cases rearranging one particular V(H) gene, V(H)3-21, displayed poor outcome despite that two-thirds showed mutated V(H) genes. Many of the V(H)3-21 utilizing cases expressed lambda  light chains, rearranged a Vlambda2-14 gene, and had homologous complementarity determining region 3s (CDR3s), implying recognition of a common antigen epitope.  We thus believe that the cases rearranging the V(H)3-21 gene comprises an additional CLL entity. We further analyzed the V(H) gene rearrangements and, specifically, the heavy chain CDR3 sequences in 346 CLL cases to investigate the  role of antigens in CLL. We identified six new subgroups with similar HCDR3 features and restricted VL gene usage as in the V(H)3-21-using group. Our data indicate a limited number of antigen recognition sites in these subgroups and give further evidence for antigen selection in the development of CLL. Different  mutational cutoffs have been used to distinguish mutated CLL in addition to the 2% cutoff. Using three levels of somatic mutations we divided 323 CLLs into subsets with divergent survival (<2%, 2-5% and >5% mutations). This division revealed a low-mutated subgroup (2-5%) with inferior outcome that would have been masked using the traditional 2% cutoff. A 1513A/C polymorphism in the P2X(7) receptor gene was reported to be more frequent in CLL, but no difference in genotype frequencies was revealed in our 170 CLL cases and 200 controls. However, CLL cases with the 1513AC genotype showed superior survival than 1513AA cases and this was in particular confined to CLL with mutated VH genes. In summary, we could define new prognostic subgroups in CLL using Ig gene rearrangement analysis. This also allowed us to gain insights in the biology and potential role of antigen involvement in the pathogenesis of CLL."
2627	"We report the outcomes after reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic stem cell  transplantation (RIT) for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in 88 patients (low-grade NHL [LG-NHL], n = 41; high-grade NHL [HG-NHL], n = 37; mantle cell lymphoma [MCL], n = 10). Thirty-seven patients had previously received autografts, and 21  were in complete remission (CR) at transplantation. Conditioning therapy consisted of alemtuzumab, fludarabine, and melphalan. Sixty-five patients received peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) from HLA-identical siblings, and 23  received bone marrow (BM) from matched unrelated donors. Prophylaxis for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) consisted of cyclosporin A. Grade III-IV acute GVHD developed in 4 patients, and chronic GVHD developed in 6 patients. With a median follow-up of 36 months (range, 18-60 months), the actuarial overall survival (OS) rates at 3 years were 34% for HG-NHL, 60% for MCL, and 73% for LG-NHL (P < .001). The 100-day and 3-year transplant-related mortality (TRM) rates for patients with LG-NHL were 2% and 11%, respectively, and were better (P  = .01) than they were for patients with HG-NHL (27% and 38%, respectively). The actuarial current progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 3 years, including the  rate for patients who achieved remission after donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) for progression, was 65% for LG-NHL, 50% for MCL, and 34% for HG-NHL (P = .002).  Twenty-one patients underwent DLI for matched related donor (MD)-persistent disease or relapse, and 15 underwent DLI for mixed hematopoietic chimerism. Patients who experienced relapses of LG-NHL and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) achieved excellent PFS with extremely low TRM and GVHD, even when matched related donors were unavailable."
2628	"It is possible to differentiate malignant from healthy cells and to classify diseases based on identification of specific gene expression profiles. We hypothesized that gene expression profiling could also be used to identify differential activation of healthy and malignant cells, and as a model for this,  we examined the molecular sequelae of CD40 activation of healthy and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Hierarchical clustering analysis of gene expression signatures grouped samples by CD40 activation status and further  subclassified CD40-activated CLL cells from healthy B cells. Supervised analyses  in healthy B cells compared to CLL cells identified differential regulation of genes governing cell cycle progression and apoptosis. CD40 signaling of CLL cells increases their susceptibility to immune recognition, but promotes survival and cell cycle arrest, making these cells potentially more resistant to chemotherapy. These results illustrate the utility of gene expression profiling to elucidate the molecular sequelae of signaling in healthy cells and altered signaling pathways in malignant cells. This type of approach should be useful to identify targets of therapy of malignant diseases."
2629	"We analyzed 38 untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia of B-cell type (B-CLL): 24 low-, 8 intermediate-, and 6 high-risk stage. In 15 patients (13 low risk and 2 intermediate risk), circulating Vdelta1 T lymphocytes were significantly increased (100 to 300 cells/muL) compared with most intermediate, all high-risk stage, and 15 healthy donors (50 to 100 cells/muL). We studied these Vdelta1 T lymphocytes and observed that they proliferated in vitro and produced tumor necrosis factor alpha or IFN-gamma in response to autologous leukemic B cells but not to normal lymphocytes. However, they were unable to kill resting autologous B cells, which lack the MHC-related MIC-A antigen and express  low levels of the UL16-binding protein (ULBP) 3 and undetectable levels of ULBP1, ULBP2, and ULBP4. All these molecules are reported ligands for the NKG2D receptor, which is expressed by gammadelta T cells and activates their cytolytic  function. The Vdelta1 T lymphocytes studied were able to lyse the ULBP3(+) C1R B-cell line upon transfection with MIC-A. More importantly, they also lysed autologous B-CLL cells when transcription and expression of MIC-A or up-regulation of ULBP3 were achieved either by activation or by exposure to trans-retinoic acid. The NKG2D receptor expressed on Vdelta1 T cells was involved in the recognition of B-CLL. Finally, in six patients with low numbers of circulating Vdelta1 T cells and undetectable ULBP3, the disease progressed over 1 year, whereas no progression occurred in patients with high Vdelta1 T lymphocytes and detectable/inducible ULBP3. These data suggest that Vdelta1 T lymphocytes may play a role in limiting the progression of B-CLL."
2631	"A 59-year-old male with lymphocytosis and thrombocytopenia was asymptomatic without lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly over 10 years. He was admitted to our hospital because his thrombocytopenia had worsened. The clonal lymphocytes appeared as regular small mature lymphocytes on blood films, and bone marrow biopsy showed diffuse infiltration of mature lymphocytes. However, megakaryocytes also presented. The immunophenotypic analysis by flow cytometry revealed that the lymphocytes were positive for CD19, CD20, CD22, and surface membrane immunoglobulin (SmIg) M and D-lambda and were negative for CD5, CD10, CD11c, CD23, and other lineage markers. Expression levels of CD20 and SmIg were strong.  The markers were consistent with CD5- CLL with autoimmune thrombocytopenia. He received rituximab, and a rapid decrease of lymphocytes with concomitant increase of platelets was observed. A few cases of CD5- CLL with a stable clinical course  have been reported, thought to be B lymphocytosis of undetermined significance (MLUS). This is the first report of CD5- CLL with indolent clinical course associated with autoimmune thrombocytopenia, successfully treated with rituximab."
2632	"Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is endemic in certain regions of  the world where it is associated with lymphoid malignancies. Herein we aim to describe the seroprevalence of HTLV-1 in lymphoid malignancies in Dominica. We carried out a 10-year retrospective study of histologically proven hematologic malignancies and HTLV-1 seropositivity at the Princess Margaret Hospital, Dominica. Ninety-eight cases were reviewed (59% males, 41% females), ranging in age from 3 to 91 years. HTLV-1 was seropositive in 38.6% (31/80) of all hematologic malignancies. Three of 6 cases of Hodgkin disease (50%), 16 of 36 (44.4%) of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and 3 out of 8 unclassified lymphomas (37.5%) were seropositive; all 6 cases (100%) of acute adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) were seropositive. One case each of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and myeloproliferative disorder was seropositive. HTLV-1-seropositive lymphomas presented at a younger age than did seronegative cases. Thus, HTLV-1 is significantly associated with lymphoid malignancies in Dominica, and further studies are needed before a causal relationship with Hodgkin disease can be established."
2633	"Bcl-2 protein plays a critical role in inhibiting anticancer drug-induced apoptosis, which is mediated by a mitochondria-dependent pathway that controls the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria through anion channels. Constitutive overexpression of Bcl-2 or unchanged expression after treatment with anticancer drugs confers drug resistance not only to hematologic malignancies but also to solid tumors. The down-regulation of Bcl-2 protein by the antisense (AS)  Bcl-2 (oblimesen sodium) may be a useful method for targeting the antiapoptotic protein and thereby increasing the chemotherapeutic effect of anticancer drugs. Several randomized, controlled, Phase III trials have compared standard chemotherapy with a combination of AS Bcl-2 and standard chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, multiple myeloma, malignant melanoma, and nonsmall cell lung carcinoma. Nonrandomized clinical trials and preclinical evaluations of AS Bcl-2 also are underway for patients with other malignancies. Here, the authors review the current clinical and preclinical evaluations of AS Bcl-2 and discuss its potential to act as a chemosensitizer and to enhance the therapeutic effect of cancer chemotherapy."
2634	"OBJECTIVE: The effect of alcohol intake on risk of NHL is unclear. We therefore conducted a population-based case-control study to examine the association between alcohol and NHL risk. METHODS: 613 NHL cases and 480 population controls in Sweden reported their average consumption of beer, wine, and liquor 2 years before the study. Unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratios (OR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI) for associations between alcohol intake and NHL risk. RESULTS: Intake of total alcohol, beer, wine, or liquor was not associated with risk of overall NHL. There was no difference in risk of NHL among those who habitually consumed above 19.1 g of ethanol per day, compared to those who consumed on average 0-2.2 g of ethanol per day (OR = 1.2 (95% CI: 0.8, 1.7); Ptrend = 0.29). However, the association was significantly positive among males (OR = 1.8 (95% CI: 1.1, 2.9); Ptrend = 0.06). Total alcohol, beer, wine, or liquor intake was not associated with any major histopathologic subtype of NHL examined, apart from an association between high wine consumption and increased risk of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol does not appear to be a major etiologic factor for overall NHL, nor its common subtypes."
2635	"Folate availability is critical for DNA integrity, required for the transfer of methyl groups in the biosynthesis of thymidilate. Reduction of 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, a donor for methylating dUMP to dTMP in DNA synthesis, to 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, the primary methyl donor for methionine synthesis, is catalyzed by 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR). The  MTHFR polymorphisms C677T and A1298C have been shown in some studies to alter the risk of a range of different malignancies. We evaluated the role of the C677T and A1298C polymorphisms on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) risk by genotyping 832 patients and 886 healthy controls. The odds ratio of CLL associated with 677CT and 677TT genotypes were 1.02 [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 0.83-1.24] and 0.90 (95% CI, 0.66-1.24), respectively. The odds ratio of CLL associated with 1298AC and 1298CC genotypes were 0.97 (95% CI, 0.79-1.18) and 0.88 (95% CI, 0.62-1.24), respectively. This data indicate that the MTHFR polymorphisms C677T and A1298C do not significantly contribute to an inherited genetic susceptibility to CLL."
2636	"New therapies are required for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), an incurable disease characterized by failure of mature lymphocytes to undergo apoptosis. Activation of cell surface death receptors, such as via TRAIL receptor ligation,  may provide a novel therapeutic target for various malignancies. However, CLL and other lymphoid malignancies are resistant to TRAIL. We report that low concentrations of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, such as depsipeptide, which alone failed to induce apoptosis, markedly sensitize CLL cells and other primary lymphoid malignancies to TRAIL-induced apoptosis. These combinations caused little or no toxicity to normal lymphocytes. HDAC inhibitors sensitized resistant cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis by facilitating formation of an active death-inducing signalling complex (DISC), leading to the rapid activation of caspase-8. The facilitated DISC formation also occurred in the absence of TRAIL-R2 upregulation. Thus, the combination of HDAC inhibitors and TRAIL may be  valuable in the treatment of various hemopoietic malignancies."
2637	"BACKGROUND: Fludarabine induces leukemic cell apoptosis and is highly efficient in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. However, fludarabine therapy causes severe leukopenia. Leukocyte myeloperoxidase (MPO) catalyzes the formation of HOCl, and  this is the main microbicidal function in phagocytes. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effect of fludarabine on leukocytes, i.e. their degranulation capacity, MPO activity and HOCl production. METHODS: Peripheral blood leukocytes were incubated for 48 h with fludarabine. Degranulation was measured using a flow-cytometric method. MPO activity and HOCl  production were measured spectrophotometrically. RESULTS: The degranulation capacity of fludarabine-treated leukocytes was significantly elevated compared to untreated controls. MPO activity and HOCl production were also increased in parallel. A possible direct activating effect of fludarabine was tested on the MPO activity of HL60 cells. Fludarabine did not  affect MPO activity at concentrations ranging from 10 microM to 2 mM. CONCLUSION: Fludarabine had no inhibitory effect on the microbial killing of leukocytes."
2638	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: p53 status and CD38 antigen are biological factors influencing response to therapy and clinical course in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). This study tests the hypothesis that soluble p53 alone and in association with CD38 can enucleate B-CLL subsets at worse prognosis. DESIGN AND METHODS: Wild and mutant forms of p53 protein were evaluated in 197 B-CLL patients at diagnosis or before progression by an immunoenzymatic method in plasma using an anti-p53 monoclonal antibody. CD38 expression was analyzed by a multicolor flow cytometric assay. RESULTS: Higher levels of both soluble p53 (sp53) and CD38 were significantly correlated with intermediate and high Rai stages, with higher beta2-microglobulin and soluble CD23 values, determined at diagnosis. Shorter overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were both observed in sp53+ and CD38+ patients (p<0.0001). Simultaneous positivity or negativity for sp53 and CD38 identified two subsets of patients, the former with a worse prognosis and the latter with a better prognosis with regard to PFS (p<0.0001) and OS (p<0.0001). The predictive value of sp53 and CD38 was retained among the patients within the  intermediate Rai risk group. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: sp53 and CD38 together with ZAP-70 were confirmed to be independent prognostic factors in multivariate analysis. With regard to PFS, ZAP-70, sp53 and CD38 were confirmed to be independent prognostic factors. Concerning OS, ZAP-70, CD38 and age (< or > 60 years) were independent prognostic factors whereas sp53 showed only a tendency towards statistical significance."
2639	"We report an immunocompromised woman with chronic lymphocytic leukemia who developed cutaneous zygomycosis at the site of an arterial line. The initial lesion resembled a bulls-eye. Bull's-eye lesions of zygomycosis have been reported twice before. Recognition of this sign may allow the dermatologist to make a rapid presumptive diagnosis and initiate treatment for this life-threatening infection."
2640	"In CD5 positive (CD5+) mature B-cell lymphomas, newly recognized CD5+ diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) has been characterized by aggressive features. We studied twenty-five cases with CD5+ lymphomas involving bone marrow. Eleven cases were diagnosed as chronic lymphocytic leukemia, six cases were diagnosed as mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), and three cases with morphologic characteristics of MCL and without both the cyclin D1 expression and IGH/CCND1 rearrangement were unclassifiable. The remaining five cases, showing large to medium-sized lymphoid  cells with prominent nucleoli and a moderate amount of cytoplasm, were diagnosed  as DLBCL. Five DLBCL cases were positive for CD5, CD20, surface immunoglobulin, but negative for CD23. Patients with CD5+ DLBCL showed a high age of onset (median, 68 yr) and two patients expired one month after the diagnosis. Since CD5+ DLBCL forms a distinct subgroup of DLBCL, a study of CD5 expression in DLBCL would be helpful to predict prognosis and to determine future therapeutic strategy. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on de novo CD5+  DLBCL in Koreans."
2641	"OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this retrospective cohort study is to update mortality  experience at refinery/petrochemical plant facilities in Baton Rouge, Louisiana,  and Baytown, Texas. METHODS: Standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were calculated for 1970-1997 based on death rates in the respective states. RESULTS: SMRs are near or below unity for most causes of death. Among elevations, Baton Rouge has an SMR of 2.42 (95% CI = 1.16-4.45) for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 1.58 (95% CI = 1.17-2.08) for hypertension with heart disease, and 1.47 (95% CI = 0.98-2.11) for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Baytown has an SMR of 2.13 (95%  CI = 1.10-3.73) for acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL) and 3.11 (95% CI = 1.01-7.26) for unspecified brain/spinal cord neoplasms. The above findings pertain to pre-1950 hires and exhibit no apparent job-related patterns. Both cohorts have approximately twofold increases in mesothelioma deaths, similar to the last update, with most decedents having held maintenance jobs. CONCLUSIONS: Periodic examination of mortality patterns has an important role in  assessing overall employee health status and identifying potential areas of increased risk. Mortality surveillance will continue to monitor these outcomes among more recent workers."
2642	"Chemokine receptors are expressed by many cells, including lymphoid cells, and function to mediate cell trafficking and localization. Normal B-cells have been reported to express CXCR3, CXCR4, CXCR5, CCR6 and CCR7, however changes in chemokine receptor expression during B-cell development and in B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (BCLPDs) are incompletely understood, and could provide important information about normal B-cell development and about behavior  of neoplastic B-cells. The objective was to perform a systematic study of chemokine receptor expression on B cells from normal subjects and from patients with a range of BCLPDs. Expression of the above chemokine receptors, and CCR5, were analyzed by flow cytometry on lymphocytes from normal controls (n=20), and samples of follicular centre cell lymphoma (FCCL, n=16), precursor B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Prec-B-ALL, n=16), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL, n=21), small cell lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL, n=9), hairy cell leukemia (HCL, n=10) and other miscellaneous disorders (n=9). Normal B cells were typically positive for CXCR4, CXCR5 and CCR6, negative for CCR5 and variable for CCR7. Prec-B-ALL cells expressed CXCR4 but were negative for the other receptors. B-CLL cells lost expression of CCR6 but showed strong expression of CCR7. In contrast,  SLL cells failed to express CCR7, but were otherwise similar to CLL cells. HCL cells showed absence of CXCR5 and CCR7, but interestingly all but one case expressed CCR5, whilst CD25-negative "variant" HCL cells did not express CCR5. FCCL cells down-regulated CXCR4 and CXCR5 expression and lost expression of CCR6  and CCR7. CXCR3 expression was highly variable on normal B-cells and on cells from BCLPDs, possibly due to its lability during processing. Distinct changes in  chemokine receptor expression accompany B-cell development, whilst some BCLPDs show characteristic alterations that may be useful in phenotyping and in understanding biological behavior."
2643	"The outcome of allogeneic stem cell transplantation depends upon the disease status before transplantation. Patients with refractory disease are at high risk  for relapse. To improve the curative potential of the transplant procedure, we treated 3 chemotherapy-refractory CLL patients with alemtuzumab before allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Prior to therapy, all patients suffered from B-symptoms, and had massive adenopathy, splenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, and anemia; two patients had hepatomegaly. Alemtuzumab greatly reduced tumor mass in  blood and bone marrow, B-symptoms resolved, and organomegaly improved. Two patients became blood product independent. All patients proceeded to transplantation after conditioning with TBI 2 Gy (n=1) or Treosulfan (n=2) in combination with Fludarabine either from an HLA-matched sibling (n=2) or from an  HLA-matched unrelated donor (n=1). All patients engrafted, and are alive and well. Two patients reached complete remission (CR); one patient attained stable partial remission (PR). These heavily pre-treated refractory patients gained substantial clinical benefit from alemtuzumab, and received successful allografts."
2644	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a clonal B-cell disorder, which has recently been divided into 2 subtypes based on the somatic hypermutation status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgVH) genes. In patients with unmutated tumor  cells the survival time is approximately half of that in mutated cases, but the reason for this difference is poorly understood. Since infections are the major cause of mortality in CLL, we investigated the effect of the mutation status on host immunity and proneness to infections in patients with CLL. As expected, the  disease progression seemed to be faster and the disease more advanced (Binet B and C) among unmutated patients than in the mutated ones. Surprisingly, no differences in humoral immunity [immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, IgA, IgG subclasses, anti-ABO blood group antibodies and mannan-binding lectin (MBL)] or immune responses (Haemophilus influenzae serotype b conjugate vaccination) were detected between these 2 patient groups. Furthermore, UM-patients were not more prone to infections compared to M-patients, and therapy had no impact on the incidence and pattern of infections in either of the patient groups. The current  findings within this patient cohort reveal that the worse outcome in the unmutated subgroup is not caused by more severe defects in immunity and increased susceptibility to infections when compared with the hypermutated group. It is thus conceivable that active immunization procedures such as vaccination can successfully be applied on patients with unmutated IgVH gene and advanced disease stage."
2645	"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) B cells display characteristics consistent with a defect in programmed cell death (apoptosis) and exhibit prolonged survival in vivo. When recovered from peripheral blood or lymphoid tissues from the patient and cultured in vitro, these malignant cells rapidly undergo spontaneous  apoptosis. This observation suggests that the selective survival advantage enjoyed by CLL B-cells is not entirely autonomous, raising the possibility of manipulating CLL B-cell survival by iatrogenic means. The extended survival of the neoplastic B-cells creates a permissive soil on which oncogene activation, genetic instability and accumulation of gene mutations favoring disease progression can occur. In addition, such survival-promoting microenvironments can rescue leukemia cells from cytotoxic therapy, giving way to disease relapse. Survival of CLL B-cells is influenced by interactions with non-leukemia cells in  the microenvironment of lymph nodes, marrow and other tissues. CLL B-cells have developed many different ways to escape undergoing apoptosis. These include: (a)  expression of survival receptor as well as their ligands, giving rise to autocrine survival pathways which are leukemia cell specific; (b) defects in plasma membrane receptor cell signaling, triggered by death receptors such as Fas- and TRAIL; and (c) constitutively active survival signaling pathways such as NFkappaB and PI3K/Akt. Here we discuss some of the molecular mechanisms by which  interaction with other cells and factors in the microenvironment provides survival advantages to CLL B-cells in specific in vivo niches, and we suggest some strategies for overcoming these anti-apoptotic mechanisms for improving treatment of CLL."
2646	"Recognition of biased immunoglobulin variable (IgV) gene usage in B-cell chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) may yield insight into leukemogenesis and may help to refine prognostic categories. We explored Ig variable heavy (VH) and light (VL) chain gene usage in highly stable and indolent B-CLL (n=25) who never required treatment over 10 or more years. We observed an unexpectedly high usage  of mutated VH3-72 (6/25; 24.0%), a gene that was otherwise rare in B-CLL (7/805;  0.87%; P<0.01), including mutated cases (6/432; 1.39%; P<0.01) and was exceptional among indolent (1/230, 0.435%; P<0.01), and aggressive B-cell lymphomas (0/105; P<0.01). Three of six VH3-72 B-CLL cases utilized the same VL Vkappa4-1 gene. Two V(H)3-72 B-CLL cases had highly homologous VH complementarity determining regions 3 (CDR3s), encoding Cys-XXXX-Cys domains, and utilized Vkappa4-1 genes with homologous IgVL CDR3s. An identical threonine to isoleucine  change at codon 84 of V(H)3-72 framework region 3 (FR3) recurred in four cases of highly stable VH3-72 B-CLL. This mutation is expected to cause a conformational change of FR3 proximal to CDR3 that might critically affect high-affinity antigen binding. B-cell receptors encoded by VH3-72 may identify a specific B-CLL group and be implicated in leukemogenesis through an antigen-driven expansion of B cells."
2647	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most prevalent adult leukemia in the Western hemisphere, yet many biological and molecular features of the disease remain undefined. CLL cells generate increased levels of radical species such as  superoxide and nitric oxide (NO), which is associated with mitochondrial DNA mutations. Considering that NO levels can affect mitochondrial biogenesis, we hypothesized that the inherent nitrosative stress in CLL cells may lead to hyperactive mitochondrial biogenesis. Here we report that primary CLL cells contained significantly more mitochondria than normal lymphocytes and that their  mitochondrial mass was significantly related to endogenous NO levels. Expression  of the mitochondrial biogenesis factors nuclear respiratory factor-1 and mitochondrial transcription factor A was elevated in most CLL specimens examined  and appeared to be related to cellular NO levels. Treatment of B cells with exogenous NO caused a substantial increase in mitochondrial mass. In vitro sensitivity of CLL cells to fludarabine was highly related to mitochondrial mass  in that cells with greater mitochondrial mass were less sensitive to the drug. Taken together, our results suggest that NO is a key mediator of mitochondrial biogenesis in CLL and that modulation of mitochondrial biogenesis by NO may alter cellular sensitivity to fludarabine."
2648	"Grb7, a noncatalytic intracellular adaptor protein involved in cell migration, is overexpressed in certain invasive and metastatic solid tumors. We found a highly  significant difference in the level of expression of Grb7 between chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells obtained from stage I and stage IV patients (P<0.001). Using semiquantitative RT-PCR, we detected high levels of Grb7 in 88%  of stage IV patients vs only 18% in stage I patients. A corresponding increase was found in the in vitro migration of stage IV CLL cells in comparison to stage  I cells. The statistically significant difference in the expression of Grb7 between stage IV and stage I patients was preserved even when tested specifically in the ZAP70-positive group (P<0.01). These findings show that Grb7 levels reflect the severity of the disease, and may be used, in conjunction with ZAP70,  to predict disease progression."
2653	"Transgenic mice overexpressing in B lymphocytes either Bcl-2 or a TNF receptor-associated factor (TRAF)2 mutant lacking the N-terminal RING and zinc finger domains located at the N terminus of the molecule (TRAF2DN), which mimics  TRAF1, developed lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly due to polyclonal B cell expansion. Remarkably, TRAF2DN/Bcl-2 double-transgenic mice contained B cell populations similar to those observed in TRAF2DN mice. However, over time, they developed severe splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy, and most animals also developed leukemia, pleural effusion, and, in some cases, ascites associated with monoclonal and oligoclonal B cell neoplasms. The life span of TRAF2DN/Bcl-2 mice  was markedly reduced compared with Bcl-2 and TRAF2DN single-transgenics or wild-type littermates. The expanded B cell population of TRAF2DN/Bcl-2 double-transgenic mice was primarily comprised of small/medium-size noncycling B220(M)/IgM(H)/IgD(L)/CD21(L)/CD23(NULL)/CD11b(+)/CD5+ cells that were Bcl-6-negative, consistent with a B-1 phenotype. The cells also expressed high levels of CD54 and other adhesion molecules. In vitro, these B cells showed comparable proliferation rates to those of wild-type counterparts but exhibited markedly increased survival and were resistant to apoptosis induced by chemotherapeutic agents and glucocorticoids. Histopathologic features were consistent with mouse small B cell lymphoma progressing to leukemia with many similarities to human chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Given that many human chronic lymphocytic leukemias overexpress TRAF1 and Bcl-2, our findings suggest that cooperation between Bcl-2 and TRAF pathways contributes to the development of this type of leukemia."
2654	"MOTIVATION: A major focus of current cancer research is to identify genes that can be used as markers for prognosis and diagnosis, and as targets for therapy. Microarray technology has been applied extensively for this purpose, even though  it has been reported that the agreement between microarray platforms is poor. A critical question is: how can we best combine the measurements of matched genes across microarray platforms to develop diagnostic and prognostic tools related to the underlying biology? RESULTS: We introduce a statistical approach within a Bayesian framework to combine the microarray data on matched genes from three investigations of gene expression profiling of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and normal B cells (NBC) using three different microarray platforms, oligonucleotide arrays, cDNA arrays printed on glass slides and cDNA arrays printed on nylon membranes. Using this approach, we identified a number of genes that were consistently differentially expressed between CLL and NBC samples."
2655	"Somatic hypermutation (SHM) targets primarily the immunoglobulin variable region  (IgV) genes in germinal center (GC) B cells, thereby allowing antibody affinity maturation. A malfunction of SHM, termed aberrant somatic hypermutation (ASHM), was found in about 50% of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCLs), leading to mutations in the 5' sequences of multiple genes, including oncogenes. Although the SHM mechanism is largely unknown, it was shown to require the activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) gene. AID mRNA is expressed in GC B cells and GC-derived lymphomas, but the pattern of expression of the AID protein  is not known. Using 2 specific antibodies, here we show that the AID protein can  be detected in GC centroblasts and their transformed counterpart (Burkitt lymphoma) but not in pre-GC B cells and post-GC neoplasms, including B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma. DLBCLs displayed variable levels of AID expression, which did not correlate with IgV ongoing hypermutation, ASHM, or disease subtype. Finally, both in normal and malignant B cells the AID protein appeared predominantly localized in the cytoplasm. These results indicate that the AID protein is specifically expressed in normal and transformed GC B cells; nonetheless, its predominantly cytoplasmic localization suggests that additional mechanisms may regulate its function and may be altered during lymphomagenesis."
2656	"BACKGROUND: Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is an effective but expensive medical procedure to which some ethnic minorities, the elderly, and those without insurance have been shown to have limited access. The purpose of the current study was to determine whether socioeconomic factors were associated  with HSCT usage rates in patients with leukemia. METHODS: The authors identified 6574 patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or other leukemias from the 1999 Texas Hospital Inpatient Discharge Public Use Data File. Of these patients, 1604 received an autologous or allogeneic HSCT. The authors assessed patients' ethnicity, payer status, age, gender, and comorbid medical conditions. Logistic regression was used to control  for patient characteristics and to evaluate associations among payer status, ethnicity, and HSCT use. P < or = 0.05 indicated statistical significance. RESULTS: Patients who self-paid had the highest rate of HSCT use in all age groups (32%; P < or = 0.01) and in the adult group (36%; P = 0.11). Elderly patients with Medicare had a low rate of HSCT use (17%; P = 0.13). Logistic regression showed no statistically significant associations between payer status  or ethnicity and HSCT use. However, elderly women were significantly less likely  to undergo HSCT than elderly men (odds ratio, 0.34; P < or = 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: The lack of statistically significant differences in HSCT use among  adult patients with leukemia was surprising because previous studies had shown differences in HSCT by ethnicity and insurance."
2657	"To develop an effective antitumor immunotherapy for B-lineage non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, we constructed a tetravalent tandem diabody (tanDb) specific for both human CD19 (B-cell marker) and CD3 (T-cell antigen). Here, we report the effective killing of malignant primary B cells from patients with B-cell chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) by autologous T cells induced by tanDb at very low E:T ratios. Mononuclear cells from patients with B-CLL were cultured with bispecific antibody fragments in either the presence or absence of monospecific anti-CD28 antibody. Use of tetravalent tanDbs caused almost quantitative elimination of malignant B cells from the blood samples of 19 patients and some cytotoxic activity in 3 of 23 analyzed cases. In contrast, the structurally similar but bivalent diabody and single-chain diabody demonstrated nearly no antitumor activity in an autologous system. tanDb-induced activation and proliferation of T cells occurred only in the presence of CD19+ target cells. Expression of the B7-1 (CD80) and B7-2 (CD86) molecules on the surface of leukemia cells made unnecessary the additional CD28-costimulation of T cells. When only a few tanDb molecules were present, the effect of CD28 costimulation on T-cell activation was more pronounced. Depending on the patient sample, we observed a 10- to 1,000-fold decrease of the half-maximal concentrations of tanDb for cell lysis. Upon CD28 crosslinking by agonistic MAb, specific tumor cell lysis was found at tanDb concentrations as low as 0.5 pM. These data demonstrate  that the tetravalent CD19xCD3 tanDb might be a promising tool for the immunotherapy of human B-cell leukemias and lymphomas."
2658	"We recently identified a chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) subgroup using the immunoglobulin variable heavy-chain (V(H)) gene V(H)3-21 with almost identical heavy-chain complementarity determining region 3s (HCDR3s) and preferential variable light-chain (V(L)) gene usage, suggesting recognition of a common antigen epitope in this subset. To further explore the B-cell receptors (BCRs) in CLL, we characterized 407 V(H) rearrangements amplified from 346 CLLs regarding V(H), diversity (D), and joining (J(H)) gene usage and performed multiple alignment of the HCDR3 sequences. These analyses revealed 3 small subsets (2 V(H)1-69 groups, 7 cases; and 1 V(H)1-2 group, 5 cases) with highly restricted HCDR3 features including identical V(H)/D/J(H) usage, HCDR3 lengths, and shared N-sequences, in addition to the V(H)3-21 group (22 cases). Furthermore, another 3 groups (9 V(H)1-3(+) cases, 3 V(H)1-18(+) cases, and 5 V(H)4-39(+) cases) had essentially identical V(H)/D/J(H) use and similar HCDR3 lengths but less conserved N-regions. Analysis in all 6 of these subgroups showed restriction in V(L) gene use, whereas no association between V(H) and V(L) usage was found in cases without HCDR3 similarities. Altogether, structurally similar HCDR3s associated with preferential V(L) gene usage implies selection of BCRs, especially in subsets showing high HCDR3 similarities, thus pointing to restricted antigen recognition sites and possibly involvement of specific antigens in CLL development."
2659	"Overweight [body mass index (BMI) 25.0-29.9 kg/m(2)] and obesity (BMI >/=30 kg/m(2)) are risk factors for several malignancies. The Iowa Women's Health Study was examined to determine whether increased BMI was associated with leukemia development. Over 40,000 Iowa women (ages 55-69 years) completed a self-administered lifestyle and health questionnaire in 1986 that included current height and weight. Two hundred women developed leukemia during the period 1986 to 2001 including 74 acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and 88 chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The risk of AML was increased among women who reported being overweight or obese (relative risk, 1.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-3.4;  relative risk, 2.4; 95% confidence interval, 1.3-4.5; P(trend) = 0.006) compared  with women of normal weight. There was little evidence of a positive association  for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (P(trend) = 0.6). Given the prevalence of overweight and obesity in the United States, the population attributable risk of  AML due to obesity could approach 30%."
2660	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Overexpression of the Bcl-2 oncoprotein is noted in various malignant disorders. In patients with hematologic malignancies, increased production of the Bcl-2 oncoprotein is associated with chemotherapy resistance, aggressive clinical course, and poor survival. Bcl-2 is an important molecular target. Downregulating Bcl-2 can potentially reverse inherent tumor resistance to, and possibly improve response to therapy. This review focuses on the preclinical data, as well as the current clinical information available on oblimersen, a novel antisense approach targeting Bcl-2 in malignant hematologic disorders. RECENT FINDINGS: Early clinical trials have shown single-agent activity of oblimersen in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and thus, provide proof of principle for antisense therapy. Phase I and phase II studies using oblimersen in combination with conventional chemotherapy have shown encouraging results in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and acute myeloid leukemia. Phase III studies in patients with multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia have completed accrual and results are awaited. SUMMARY: Bcl-2 is a clinically meaningful target in patients with hematologic malignancies. Downregulation of the Bcl-2 oncoprotein can be achieved with oblimersen (antisense molecule specific for Bcl-2). Early clinical results suggest a possible role of this antisense approach in targeting Bcl-2. Ongoing clinical trials will establish the clinical utility of oblimersen in patients with hematologic malignancies."
2661	"PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Redox regulation has been shown to be an important component of malignant cell survival and is a system that may be pharmacologically manipulated for the treatment of cancer. Motexafin gadolinium is a member of a class of rationally designed porphyrin-like molecules called texaphyrins. The rationale for its use in cancer therapy is that, like naturally occurring porphyrins, it tends to concentrate selectively in cancer cells and it has a novel mechanism of action as it induces redox stress, triggering apoptosis in a broad range of cancers. RECENT FINDINGS: In vitro studies have shown that motexafin gadolinium is synergistic with radiation and varied chemotherapeutic agents. A phase III international study has shown that the onset of neurologic progression is significantly delayed in patients with brain metastases from lung cancer treated  with whole-brain radiation and motexafin gadolinium (compared with radiation alone). Recent preclinical data have shown that motexafin gadolinium alone is cytotoxic to cancers such as multiple myeloma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and chronic  lymphocytic leukemia through redox and apoptotic pathways. Multiple clinical trials examining motexafin gadolinium as a single agent and in combination with radiation and/or chemotherapy for the treatment of solid and hematopoietic tumors are underway. SUMMARY: Motexafin gadolinium is a novel tumor-targeted agent that disrupts redox balance in cancer cells by futile redox cycling. Motexafin gadolinium is currently in numerous hematology/oncology clinical trials for use as a single agent and in combination with chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy."
2662	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) receptors DR4 and DR5 have been mapped to chromosome 8p21-22, a region frequently deleted in different lymphoid neoplasms. DESIGN AND METHODS: To investigate the potential alterations of these genes in lymphoid neoplasms, we examined the presence of gene mutations in exons 3, 4, and 9 in 69 cases with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), 16 with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 12 with follicular lymphomas (FL) and 17 with large B-cell-lymphomas (DLBCL), as well as in 4 lymphoid cell lines carrying the t(11;14) translocation, and 91 healthy blood donors. RESULTS: Three CLL and three MCL cases had 8p deletions. Two nucleotide changes in or near the intron 3 splice consensus sequence and a silent change were found. These rare changes were also present in the germ-line of the patients. The DR4 death domain A1322G polymorphism was significantly more frequent in MCL [odds ratio (OR) = 5.9; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.92-18.1] and CLL (OR = 4.5; CI, 1.18-17) patients than in a sex and age-adjusted healthy population. In contrast, the DR4 exon 4 C626G polymorphism was associated with a significant overall decreased risk for MCL (OR = 0.3; CI, 0.12-0.8). No mutations or cancer-associated polymorphic changes were found in DR5 domains. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that mutations of DR4 and DR5 are uncommon in lymphoid neoplasms but DR4 polymorphic alleles may contribute to the pathogenesis of these malignancies."
2663	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is one of the most common leukemias in the western world and consists of many chromosome aberrations. We report the case of a 74-year-old male patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia with complex variant translocations t(8;22)(q24;q11) and der(8)t(6;8)(p21;p21) identified by chromosome banding analysis and confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of interphase cells. Because of the rarity of these changes, possible molecular mechanisms associated with this karyotype are discussed."
2664	"ARHGAP1, ARHGAP2, ARHGAP3, ARHGAP4, ARHGAP5, ARHGAP6, ARHGAP7 (DLC1), ARHGAP8, ARHGAP9, ARHGAP10, ARHGAP12, ARHGAP13 (SRGAP1), ARHGAP14 (SRGAP2), ARHGAP15, ARHGAP17 (RICH1), ARHGAP18, ARHGAP19, ARHGAP20, ARHGAP21, ARHGAP22, ARHGAP23, ARHGAP24, ARHGAP25, ARHGAP26, STARD13 (DLC2), HA-1, GMIP, PARG1, RACGAP1, PIK3R1, PIK3R2, and FNBP2 genes encode Rho/Rac/Cdc42-like GTPase activating (RhoGAP) proteins. Here, we characterized human ARHGAP27 gene by using bioinformatics. Complete coding sequence of ARHGAP27 isoform 1, encoding a full-length 889-aa protein, was determined by assembling exon 1 (nucleotide position 143440-144096 of AC091132.16) and most part of FLJ43547 cDNA (nucleotide position 69-3628 of AK125535.1). Complete coding sequence of ARHGAP27 isoform 2, encoding an N-terminally truncated 548-aa protein, was derived from FLJ43547 cDNA. ARHGAP27 isoform 1 consists of exons 1-17, while ARHGAP27 isoform 2 consists of exons 1B,  and 2-17. ARHGAP27 gene encoded two isoforms due to alternative splicing of alternative promoter type. ARHGAP27 mRNA was expressed in germinal center B cell, spleen, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, pancreatic cancer, and lung cancer. LOC303583 (NM_ 198759.1) was the representative rat Arhgap27 cDNA. Human ARHGAP27 showed 84.3% total-amino-acid identity with rat Arhgap27, and 39.0% total-amino-acid identity with human ARHGAP12. ARHGAP27 and ARHGAP12 shared the common-domain structure, consisting of SH3, WW, PH, and RhoGAP domains. ARHGAP27  gene was located at human chromosome 17q21, while ARHGAP12 gene was located at human chromosome 10p11. ARHGAP family genes are cancer-associated genes, because  their genetic alterations lead to carcinogenesis through the dysregulation of Rho/Rac/ Cdc42-like GTPases. This is the first report on identification and characterization of the ARHGAP27 gene."
2665	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a hematological malignancy characterized by the accumulation of mature CD5+ B lymphocytes with a defective apoptosis. A subset of blood monocyte-derived adherent cells generated in vitro protects B-CLL cells from apoptosis playing a role as nurse-like cells (NLCs). Fludarabine (9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl-2-fluoroadenine; F-ara-A) is an adenine nucleoside analog used to treat B-CLL. To gain insight into the mechanisms implicated in the antitumoral effect of fludarabine in B-CLL cells, we performed  cross-cultures with B-CLL cells and NLCs treated and untreated with fludarabine.  Our results showed that fludarabine blocked the development of NLCs and induced apoptosis in these cells when they were present in culture. Moreover, CD19+/CD5+B-CLL cells treated with fludarabine underwent apoptosis and this event was not related with the presence of NLCs whether treated or not with fludarabine. In conclusion, apoptosis induced by fludarabine in CD19+/CD5+B-CLL cells was due to a direct effect on these cells and not due to its effect in the  NLCs."
2666	"The treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who fail purine analogues is sub optimal. CLL lymphocytes express two antigens, namely CD 20 and  CD 52, for which monoclonal antibodies are readily available. Rituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody targeted against CD 20, which has some activity in refractory CLL, with primary effect on nodal disease. Alemtuzumab is a humanized  anti-CD 52 antibody that is approved for the treatment of CLL in patients who fail alkylating agents and purine analogues. Alemtuzumab has better activity in the peripheral blood and the bone marrow compared to nodal disease. We investigated whether combining both antibodies is safe in refractory CLL. Both antibodies were given to a total of 12 patients divided into 3 cohorts with escalating alemtuzumab doses (3 mg, 10 mg, and 30 mg). The combination was proven to be safe, not toxic, feasible, and active. One patient attained PR by NCI criteria while all other patients had stable disease lasting a median of 101.5 days. All patients normalized their peripheral lymphocytosis within a median of 23.5 days. No treatment-related mortality was identified. No CMV reactivation occurred. Additional studies are needed to investigate the clinical significance  of such a combination in this patient population, and whether this combination can be administered safely with systemic chemotherapy. These studies are currently underway."
2667	"The superiority of Fludarabine over conventional therapy as primary induction therapy for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been shown in several studies but no studies have yet reported a pooled estimate of the treatment effect. We performed a systematic review of evidence from 5 randomized  controlled trials involving approximately 1300 patients with CLL, comparing Fludarabine with several alkylator-based combination regimens in the primary treatment of CLL. Complete response rate was significantly higher for Fludarabine compared to alkylator-based chemotherapy (RR 1.87, 95% CI 1.10-3.19, P=0.02), while overall response, though superior, did not reach statistical significance (RR 1.22, 95% CI=0.88-1.69, P=0.24). Overall survival was similar for Fludarabine and alkylator-based therapy (the pooled log hazard ratio of death, HR=-0.05, 95%  CI=-0.36-0.26, P=0.75). Infection rate was significantly higher (RR 1.58, 95% CI=1.10-2.27, P=0.01), but there was no significant difference in the incidence of thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and anemia. Therefore, this meta-analysis supports the findings that Fludarabine as an induction agent for patients with CLL yields a better clinical response with acceptable toxicity when compared with alkylator-based combination therapy, but without a survival benefit by 5-6 years  of follow up."
2669	"Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) regulates the metabolism of folate and methionine, essential components of DNA synthesis and methylation. We investigated whether the two genetic MTHFR polymorphisms (677C>T and 1298A>C) are associated with an increased risk for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or may predict disease progression. Moreover, we measured potential genotype effects on  apoptosis of B-CLL cells.Allele frequencies and genotype distributions for both polymorphisms were not significantly different in 111 patients vs 92 healthy controls. While progression-free survival (PFS) was not significantly different in individuals with CLL including all stages, in patients with Binet stage A PFS  was significantly longer in patients displaying the MTHFR 677CC (P=0.043) and the MTHFR 1298A/C or CC genotypes (P=0.019). In a multivariate analysis, MTHFR haplotype (677CC plus 1298CC or A/C) was the best independent prognostic factor for PFS compared with other known prognostic factors. Spontaneous apoptosis of B-CLL cells in vitro was significantly increased in the favorable risk group with MTHFR 677CC and MTHFR 1298AC, which may constitute the cellular basis of the observed associations. While MTHFR polymorphisms do not affect the risk for B-CLL, they may be independent prognostic markers that influence the PFS in patients with early-stage B-CLL."
2670	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is a chronic leukemia manifested by increased numbers of B cells in circulation. The slow, smouldering nature of the  disease in a significant proportion of the cases makes it an ideal target for immunotherapy. Dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy is emerging as an exciting modality with significant clinical potential. In this study, three strategies for delivering antigens to DC, namely apoptotic bodies (Apo-DC), tumor lysates, and tumor RNA were studied in an autologous setting. In all six CLL patients, Apo-DC  induced higher HLA-restricted, T cell responses than DC pulsed with tumor lysate  or RNA. Real-time PCR confirmed higher expression of genes for IL-2 and IFN-gamma in T cells stimulated with Apo-DC. Concurrently, no IL-10 and low IL-4 responses  indicated that the immune response was primarily of the Th1 type. Enzyme-linked immunospot assay revealed high IFN-gamma secretion by T cells when Apo-DC was used to stimulate autologous T cells in all patients. Our data suggest that cellular vaccines with DC loaded with apoptotic bodies may be a suitable approach for immunotherapy of B-CLL."
2671	"Bcl-2 protein is upregulated in a wide variety of lymphoid malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The protein is thought to be responsible for maintaining the viability of malignant lymphoid cells and may contribute to chemotherapy and radiotherapy resistance. Previous studies have shown that reduction of bcl-2 expression by antisense therapy sensitizes cells to chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. In vitro, the Bcl-2 antisense drug oblimersen sodium (Genasense, previously known as G3139) enhances the apoptotic response in  CLL cells to fludarabine (Fludara), corticosteroids, alemtuzumab (Campath), and rituximab (Rituxan). A phase I trial in patients with refractory/relapsed CLL showed that patients with CLL were more sensitive to oblimersen than patients with solid tumors. The maximum tolerated oblimersen dose was 3 mg/kg/d, and the most common dose-limiting reaction was hypotension, frequently in association with high spiking fever. In this study, oblimersen displayed limited single-agent activity, including tumor lysis syndrome, transient decreases in circulating CLL  cells, and reduction of splenomegaly and size of lymph nodes. Major responses were observed in 9% of patients. Subsequently, a phase III trial evaluating fludarabine and cyclophosphamide with or without oblimersen (3 mg/kg/d for 7 days) was initiated in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL. This trial recently completed accrual of 241 patients."
2672	"Workers employed in 15 utilities that generate nuclear power in the United States have been followed for up to 18 years between 1979 and 1997. Their cumulative dose from whole body ionizing radiation has been determined from the dose records maintained by the facilities themselves and the REIRS and REMS systems maintained by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Energy, respectively.  Mortality in the cohort from a number of causes has been analyzed with respect to individual radiation doses. The cohort displays a very substantial healthy worker effect, i.e. considerably lower cancer and noncancer mortality than the general population. Based on 26 and 368 deaths, respectively, positive though statistically nonsignificant associations were seen for mortality from leukemia (excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia) and all solid cancers combined, with excess relative risks per sievert of 5.67 [95% confidence interval (CI) -2.56, 30.4] and 0.506 (95% CI -2.01, 4.64), respectively. These estimates are very similar to those from the atomic bomb survivors study, though the wide confidence intervals are also consistent with lower or higher risk estimates. A strong positive and statistically significant association between radiation dose and deaths from arteriosclerotic heart disease including coronary heart disease was also observed in the cohort, with an ERR of 8.78 (95% CI 2.10, 20.0). While associations with heart disease have been reported in some other occupational studies, the magnitude of the present association is not consistent with them and therefore needs cautious interpretation and merits further attention. At present, the relatively small number of deaths and the young age of the cohort (mean age at end of follow-up is 45 years) limit the power of the study, but further follow-up and the inclusion of the present data in an ongoing IARC combined analysis of nuclear workers from 15 countries will have greater power for testing the main hypotheses of interest."
2673	"We examined the immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy chain variable region genes (V(H) genes) used by leukemia cells of 1220 unrelated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We found 1188 (97%) expressed Ig encoded by a single Ig V(H) subgroup, the most common of which was V(H)3 (571 or 48.1%), followed by V(H)1 (319 or 26.8%) and V(H)4 (241 or 20.2%). Using allele-specific primers, we found  13.8% of all samples (n = 164) used one major V(H)1-69 allele, designated 51p1, 163 of which were not somatically mutated. For these cases, there was marked restriction in the structure of the Ig third complementarity determining regions  (CDR3s), which were encoded by a small number of unmutated D and J(H) gene segments. Strikingly, 15 of the 163 cases had virtually identical CDR3s encoded by the second reading frame of D3-16 and J(H)3. Further analysis revealed that each of these 15 samples used the same unmutated Ig kappa light-chain gene, namely A27. These data reveal that approximately 1.3% (15/1220) of all patients had leukemia cells that expressed virtually identical Ig. This finding provides compelling evidence that the Ig expressed by CLL B cells are highly selected and  not representative of the Ig expressed by naive B cells."
2674	"The aim of this study was to investigate if graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) activity  conferred by allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) is effective in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with unmutated V(H) gene status. The kinetics  of residual disease (MRD) were measured by quantitative allele-specific immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in 9 patients after nonmyeloablative allo-SCT for unmutated CLL. Despite an only modest decrease in the early posttransplantation phase, MRD became undetectable in 7 of  9 patients (78%) from day +100 onwards subsequent to chronic graft-versus-host disease or donor lymphocyte infusions. With a median follow-up of 25 months (range, 14-37 months), these 7 patients remain in continuous clinical and molecular remission. In contrast, PCR negativity was achieved in only 6 of 26 control patients (23%) after autologous SCT for unmutated CLL and it was not durable. Taken together, this study shows for the first time that GVL-mediated immunotherapy might be effective in CLL with unmutated V(H)."
2675	"We investigated CD4 and CD8 double-positive thymocytes, CD4(+) T cells from typical patients with T-cell lineage acute lymphocytic leukemia (T-ALL) and T cell lineage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (T-CLL), and MOLT4 T cells in terms of  CC chemokine ligand 25 (CCL25) functions of induction of resistance to tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha)-mediated apoptosis. We found that CCL25 selectively enhanced resistance to TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in T-ALL and T-CLL CD4(+) T cells as well as in MOLT4 T cells, but CD4 and CD8 double-positive thymocytes did not. One member protein of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family, Livin, was selectively expressed in the malignant cells at higher levels, particularly in T-ALL CD4(+) T cells, in comparison with the expression in CD4 and CD8 double-positive thymocytes. After stimulation with CCL25 and apoptotic induction with TNF-alpha, the expression levels of Livin in these malignant cells were significantly increased. CCL25/thymus-expressed chemokine (TECK), by means of CC chemokine receptor 9 (CCR9) ligation, selectively activated Livin to enhance resistance to TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in c-jun-NH(2)-kinase 1 (JNK1) kinase-dependent manner. These findings suggested differential functions of CCR9/CCL25 in distinct types of cells. CD4 and CD8 double-positive thymocytes used CCR9/CCL25 for migration, homing, development, maturation, selection, cell homeostasis, whereas malignant cells, particularly T-ALL CD4(+) T cells, used CCR9/CCL25 for infiltration, resistance to apoptosis,  and inappropriate proliferation."
2676	"PURPOSE: Based on previous preliminary observations, we hypothesize that the molecular and clinical variability of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) reflects differences in the degree of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activation, as determined by the expression of phosphorylated IkappaBalpha (p-IkappaBalpha). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The expression profile (mRNA and protein expression) was analyzed with the Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Oncologicas Oncochip, a cDNA microarray containing 6386 cancer-related genes, and a tissue microarray (TMA). The results were correlated with the IgV(H) mutational status, ZAP-70 expression, cytogenetic alterations, and clinical outcome. RESULTS: We found correlations between the presence of p-IkappaBalpha, a surrogate marker of NF-kappaB activation, and changes in the expression profile (mRNA and protein expression) and clinical outcome in a series of CLL cases with  lymph node involvement. Activation of NF-kappaB, as determined by the expression  of p-IkappaBalpha, was associated with the expression of a set of genes comprising key genes involved in the control of B-cell receptor signaling, signal transduction, and apoptosis, including SYK, LYN, BCL2, CCR7, BTK, PIK3CD, and others. Cases with increased expression of p-IkappaBalpha showed longer overall survival than cases with lower expression. A Cox regression model was derived to  estimate some parameters of prognostic interest: IgV(H) mutational status, ZAP-70, and p-IkappaBalpha expression. The multivariate analysis disclosed p-IkappaBalpha and ZAP-70 expression as independent prognostic factors of survival. CONCLUSIONS: A variable degree of activation of NF-kappaB, as determined by the expression of p-IkappaBalpha, is an identifiable event in CLL, and is correlated  with changes in the expression profile and overall survival."
2677	"We describe 69 patients in whom small clonal B-cell populations were detected incidentally in blood and bone marrow samples by flow cytometric studies. In 20 patients (29%), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) subsequently was diagnosed 0 to 40 months (median, 0.1 month) from initial flow cytometric studies. In 49 patients (71%), there was no evidence of NHL after 0.5 to 72 months (median, 16 months). Patients without overt NHL had a higher absolute WBC count than patients with NHL (2,260/microL vs 1,470/microL [2.26 vs 1.47 x 10(9)/L]; P < .01). Otherwise, there were no clinical or hematologic differences between the 2 groups. We identified 70 clonal populations in the 69 patients, ranging from 0.05% to 4.5% (median, 1.28%) of events. The mean percentage of clonal B cells was similar for  the 2 groups. The populations were CD5-/CD10- in 34 cases; CD5+, chronic lymphocytic leukemia-like in 19; CD5+, indeterminate in 9; CD10+ in 3; hairy cell leukemia-like in 3; and CD5+, mantle cell lymphoma-like in 2. There were no immunophenotypic differences in patients with and without overt NHL."
2678	"ZAP-70 is a tyrosine kinase expressed in normal T cells and NK cells. Expression  of ZAP-70 has been associated with poor prognosis in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and might be a surrogate marker for immunoglobin heavy chain (IGH) mutational status in that disease. Little is known about ZAP-70 expression in other hematologic malignant neoplasms. We examined 446 specimens representing a range of hematopoietic malignant neoplasms for ZAP-70 expression by immunohistochemical analysis. As expected, most T cell-lineage disorders and a subset of small lymphocytic lymphomas were positive. IGH mutational status corresponded to ZAP-70 expression in a small subset of small lymphocytic lymphoma cases subjected to sequence analysis. Of note, however, ZAP-70 was expressed in a minority of other types of B-cell lymphomas, including precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, and  very rare cases of classic Hodgkin lymphoma. Immunohistochemical analysis represents an alternative method for assessing ZAP-70 expression and reveals that other B-cell malignant neoplasms express ZAP-70."
2679	"We have recently developed a novel Immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangement  (IgH-R) assay that combines polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and analysis in the same closed capillary tube using the LightCycler System. IgH-R can be identified by DNA melting curve analysis within 40 minutes after DNA preparation and amplification. To test the clinical utility of this new IgH-R assay for rapidly diagnosing cutaneous B-cell lymphomas, we prospectively analyzed 44 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues suspected of B-cell malignant lymphoma: skin (n = 31), lymph node (n = 7), stomach (n = 3), spleen (n = 1), colon (n = 1), and soft tissue (n = 1). We detected IgH-R in 12 DNA samples, including 8 skin biopsies, with the following diagnoses: B-cell chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (n = 4), extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (n = 4), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (n = 2), Burkitt lymphoma (n = 1), and precursor B-lymphoblastic lymphoma (n = 1). DNA melting curve analysis, compared with polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, achieved a sensitivity equal to 92.3% and a specificity equal to 100%. There was a single false negative result because DNA melting curve analysis could not detect less than 10.0% clonal B-cells. We conclude that this new, rapid PCR assay for detecting IgH-R based on DNA melting  curve analysis can be clinically useful for confirming the initial diagnosis of B-cell malignant lymphoma."
2681	"OBJECTIVE: To assess angiogenesis and the proliferative activity of bone marrow in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in relation to the bone marrow infiltration pattern. STUDY DESIGN: Bone marrow samples were obtained by trephine biopsy from 46 patients with B-cell CLL (B-CLL). Infiltration pattern was diffuse in 20 patients and nondiffuse--i.e., nodular, interstitial or mixed--in the remaining 26 patients. Ten normal bone marrow samples were used as a control group. Studies were carried out by immunohistochemical staining of paraffin-embedded bone marrow samples. Angiogenesis was assessed in the zones of highest vascular density (hot  spots), visualized by the expression of endothelial antigen CD34 and expressed as a number of microvessels per high-powerfield (hpf) (final magnification, 400x). Proliferative activity was estimated by the expression of nuclear protein Ki-67,  cyclin A and mean number of nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs). RESULTS: Microvessel density was higher in B-CLL marrow than in normal marrow (30.1 and 16.44 per hpf, respectively) and was higher in the diffuse than nondiffuse pattern (33.6 and 27.5 per hpf, respectively). B-CLL bone marrow also  showed higher proliferative activity, as assessed by mean number of AgNORs, than  did normal marrow (1.52 and 1.25, respectively) and a higher mean percentage of cyclin A-positive cells (7.5 and 6.8, respectively). In contrast, mean Ki-67 expression was similar in B-CLL and the control group. Mean AgNORs number, Ki-67  and cyclin A-positive cell percentage were significantly higher in B-CLL marrow with a diffuse as compared to nondiffuse involvement pattern (AgNORs, 1.75 and 1.35; cyclin A, 9.27% and 3.95%; Ki-67, 34.9% and 23.3%, respectively). CONCLUSION: Our results indicate enhancement of bone marrow angiogenesis in B-CLL and a relationship between microvessel density and the bone marrow infiltration pattern. The study points also to a possible relationship between the bone marrow infiltration pattern and proliferative activity of bone marrow cells."
2682	"The monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) alemtuzumab (anti-CD52) and rituximab (anti-CD20) produce objective clinical responses in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, their mechanisms of action are not fully understood. Therefore, we investigated the mechanisms of lymphoma and CLL cell killing by two anti-CD20 antibodies (rituximab, B1) and by alemtuzumab. All antibodies induced complement-independent cell death in B-lymphoid cell lines Raji, Ramos, and Mec-1. The efficiency of cell killing was increased by the addition of human complement in Raji but not Ramos cells. Both alemtuzumab and rituximab also killed freshly isolated CLL cells, with a much stronger response for alemtuzumab (from eight of eight patients) compared to rituximab (from two of six patients). Cell morphology and Western blot analyses revealed that the antibody-induced cell death lacked some typical features of apoptosis such as chromatin condensation or poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) cleavage. Taken together, the results suggest that the tumor killing activity of these MoAbs is not only mediated by complement-mediated cytotoxicity (CDC) or antibody-dependent cytotoxicity (ADCC), but also by a nonclassic, caspase-independent apoptotic pathway."
2683	"BACKGROUND: In B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), there is a need for molecular markers to predict the evolution of this heterogeneous disease in individual patients. The level of expression of the human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene has been associated with disease aggressiveness in human cancers. The purpose of the present study was to examine the prognostic significance of hTERT expression in B-CLL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We used real-time reverse transcription-PCR to quantitate the amount of hTERT transcripts in mononuclear blood cells from 90 B-CLL patients. In addition, samples were analyzed for somatic mutations in the immunoglobulin V (IgV) genes. RESULTS: The expression of hTERT gene was detected in 59% of patients. The level  of expression increased with advancing B-CLL stage (P=0.0064). Patients expressing hTERT showed significantly shorter survival than hTERT-negative patients (P=0.000034), irrespective of the disease stage. On average, the level hTERT mRNA expression was seven-fold higher in the poor-prognosis B-CLL group with unmutated IgV than in the Ig-mutated group (P<10(-7)). The level of hTERT expression discriminated the Ig-unmutated from Ig-mutated B-CLL in 89% of cases. CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that hTERT expression in B-CLL may serve as a molecular prognostic marker."
2686	"The importance of epigenetic modifications in carcinogenesis has been a source of controversy for some time. There is little doubt that changes in genomic hypermethylation contribute to the silencing of tumor suppressor genes. Furthermore, recent studies have also identified the significance of genomic hypomethylation associated with chromosomal instability and tumorigenesis. One of the most perplexing questions regarding epigenetic modifications and leukemogenesis is the relationship with DNA methyltransferases (DNMT's). The primary function of the DNMT enzymes is to methylate genomic DNA, whereas the methyl-CpG binding domain proteins (MBD) interpret this methylation signal and regulate gene expression and chromatin behavior. In this study we analyse these gene families by quantitative real-time PCR to investigate whether expression levels and the B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) phenotype are associated. Furthermore, given the epigenetic crosstalk between genome stability  and the histone chromatin code we have analysed eukaryotic histone methyltransferase (Eu-HMTaseI). Surprisingly, we did not observe significant changes in DNMT1 expression in B-CLL cases when compared to normal lymphocytes, regardless of whether we normalise against GAPDH or PCNA as reference standards.  Indeed, expression of the maintenance and de novo methylases were independently regulated. Of particular note was the significant down regulation of DNMT3b. Furthermore, we observed a positive correlation between HMTaseI expression levels and stage of leukemia suggesting that changes in the methylation patterns in B-CLL may represent deregulation of the epigenetic repertoire that also include the methylation dependent binding proteins, MBD2 and MeCP2. We envisage changes in the epigenetic program are multifactorial in nature and postulate that the prevalent genomic methylases just one component of a larger epigenetic repertoire."
2687	"PURPOSE: Neoplastic cells often aberrantly express normal testicular proteins. Because these proteins have a very restricted normal tissue expression, they may  be suitable targets for immunotherapy. SLLP1 is an intra-acrosomal, nonbacteriolytic, c lysozyme-like protein recently isolated from human spermatozoa. In this study, we determined whether SLLP1 is a novel cancer-testis  antigen in hematologic malignancies EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: SLLP1 expression in hematologic tumor cells and normal tissues was determined using a combination of reverse transcription-PCR, real-time PCR, and Western blot analysis. The presence of antibodies against SLLP1 was determined by ELISA analysis. RESULTS: SLLP1 was aberrantly expressed in the tumor cells from 2 of 9 acute myeloid leukemia, 3 of 11 chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 4 of 14 chronic myeloid leukemia, and 6 of 17 multiple myeloma. In contrast, they were not detected in corresponding specimens from any healthy donors. SLLP1 exhibited a very restricted normal tissue expression, being found only in testis/spermatozoa. SLLP1 was expressed in some tumor cells at a level of >25%. High titer IgG antibodies against SLLP1 were also detected in the sera of some of these patients. CONCLUSIONS: SLLP1 is a novel cancer-testis antigen in hematologic malignancies and is capable of eliciting B-cell immune responses in vivo in cancer-bearing individuals. Our results, therefore, support SLLP1 as a protein target appropriate for additional in vitro study to define its suitability for immunotherapy."
2688	"Targeted radiation therapy or radioimmunotherapy has been an important recent advance in the treatment of patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Yttrium 90-labeled ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) comprises the murine monoclonal antibody ibritumomab, the linker chelator tiuxetan, and the radiolabeled isotope  yttrium 90. Yttrium 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan has been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of B-cell NHL. Initial phase I/II trials established the therapeutic dose of ibritumomab tiuxetan for low-grade NHL to be 0.4 mCi/kg, or 0.3 mCi/kg for patients with mild thrombocytopenia. Currently, there are many ongoing trials of ibritumomab tiuxetan with different dose schedules and dose intensities in combination with chemotherapy and autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation in an attempt to improve response rate and duration and to study its effectiveness in other B-cell lymphomas including mantle cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This article reviews the ongoing trials with 90Y ibritumomab tiuxetan. Radioimmunotherapy has great promise, and the safe incorporation of 90Y ibritumomab tiuxetan into treatment will hopefully result in improved survival for patients with NHL."
2689	"PURPOSE: To describe a case of mucous membrane pemphigoid (MMP) with ocular manifestations in a patient subsequently diagnosed with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: Case report and literature review. RESULTS: A 64-year-old man presented with redness and irritation of both eyes. The patient also had blistering lesions on the roof of his mouth, trunk, and buttocks as well as bilateral conjunctival ulceration and symblepharon formation. A complete blood count performed before initiating treatment of presumed mucous membrane pemphigoid revealed a markedly increased white blood cell count (83,920) with a predominance of lymphocytes. Hematologic evaluation including immunophenotyping flow cytometry resulted in the diagnosis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Cyclophosphamide treatment improved his MMP and decreased the white blood cell count. CONCLUSIONS: Mucous membrane pemphigoid has been reported in association with a variety of nonhematologic malignancies. This case suggests that mucous membrane pemphigoid may also occur in B-cell CLL and supports the concept that autoantibodies play a role in the pathogenesis of this cicatricial conjunctival disease."
2690	"IL-5 preferentially activates B1 cells to produce natural antibodies cross-reactive to self antigens. To determine the role of IL-5 in antibody-mediated autoimmune disease, we generated systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)-prone (NZB x NZW)F1 mice congenic for IL-5 transgene (TG-F1). The transgene unexpectedly reduced the incidence of lupus nephritis. Anti-DNA antibodies in sera and those produced by splenic B cells in vitro were markedly decreased in TG-F1 mice, while total polyclonal Ig levels were comparable to those in IL-5 transgene-negative (NZB x NZW)F1 (non-TG-F1) littermates. Flow cytometry-sorted splenic B1 cells showed a significant reduction of anti-DNA antibody synthesis in response to IL-5, while proliferative responses to IL-5 did not significantly differ between TG-F1 and non-TG-F1 mice. As TG-F1 mice aged, frequencies of peripheral B1 cells progressively increased, and the mice frequently developed B  cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). Our results suggest that dysregulated, continuous high expression of IL-5 in SLE-prone mice may directly or indirectly mediate a skewed signaling of proliferation/differentiation of self-antigen-activated B1 cells, leading to suppression of autoimmune disease, but instead to aberrant expansion of B1 cells, giving rise to B-CLL. Thus, this model may provide a clue to the pathogenesis of both SLE and B-CLL."
2691	"Sialic acids as terminal residues of oligosaccharide chains play crucial roles in several cellular recognition events. Exploiting the selective affinity of Achatinin-H toward N-acetyl-9-O-acetylneuraminic acid-alpha2-6-GalNAc, we have demonstrated the presence of 9-O-acetylated sialoglycoproteins (Neu5,9Ac(2)-GPs)  on lymphoblasts of 70 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and on leukemic cell lines by fluorimetric HPLC and flow cytometric analysis. This study aims to assess the structural aspect of the glycotope of Neu5,9Ac(2)-GPs(ALL) and to evaluate whether these disease-specific molecules can be used to monitor the clinical outcome of ALL. The Neu5,9Ac(2)-GPs(ALL) were affinity-purified, and three distinct leukemia-specific molecular determinants (135, 120, and 90 kDa) were demonstrated by SDS-PAGE, western blotting, and isoelectric focusing. The carbohydrate epitope of Neu5,9Ac(2)-GPs(ALL) was confirmed by using synthetic sialic acid analogs. The enhanced presence of anti-Neu5,9Ac(2)-GP(ALL) antibody in ALL patients prompted us to develop an antigen-ELISA using purified Neu5,9Ac(2)-GPs(ALL) as coating antigens. Purified antigen was able to detect leukemia-specific antibodies at presentation of disease, which gradually decreased with treatment. Longitudinal monitoring of 18 patients revealed that in the early phase of the treatment patients with lower anti-Neu5,9Ac(2)-GPs showed  a better prognosis. Minimal cross-reactivity was observed in other hematological  disorders (n = 50) like chronic myeloid leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma as well as normal healthy individuals (n = 21). This study demonstrated the potential of purified Neu5,9Ac(2)-GPs(ALL) as an alternate tool for detection of anti-Neu5,9Ac(2)-GP antibodies to be helpful for diagnosis and monitoring of childhood ALL patients."
2692	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Although alemtuzumab (campath-1H) has been successfully used in patients with untreated or previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a variable incidence of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation has been described. No prospective reports currently provide results of the use of oral ganciclovir as pre-emptive therapy in patients with CMV reactivation during alemtuzumab treatment. DESIGN AND METHODS: We designed a prospective study in 12 patients with pretreated CLL with the aim of evaluating the incidence of CMV reactivation during alemtuzumab treatment and the role of oral ganciclovir as pre-emptive therapy and in preventing CMV organ disease. RESULTS: In the 12 CLL patients being treated with alemtuzumab, 8 patients (66%)  had CMV reactivation, as detected by antigenemia and/or CMV DNA. No patient showed clinical evidence of CMV disease. The alemtuzumab was discontinued and the patients were immediately treated with oral ganciclovir 1000 mg tid. After a median of 14 days of antiviral therapy all patients achieved negative CMV polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays and/or antigenemia. No patients showed further CMV reactivation up to the end of the study. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: CMV reactivaction, studied with periodic analysis of antigenemia and PCR, is frequent in previously treated CLL patients receiving  alemtuzumab therapy although only sporadic cases of CMV disease have been reported. Using oral ganciclovir, the response to therapy was prompt, there was no progression to CMV disease, and no relevant clinical toxicity, thus sparing unnecessary hospitalization. Oral ganciclovir may be used as pre-emptive therapy  in all patients who develop CMV reactivation during alemtuzumab treatment."
2693	"Recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities are typically found in about one third of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients (B-CLL) by standard cytogenetic analysis and their prognostic relevance is well known. We report a case of a B-CLL patient showing both trisomy 12 and a t(14;22)(q32;q11). Trisomy 12 is often associated with aggressive disease and resistance to chemotherapy, however, our patient is in good health and currently untreated after 7 years, suggesting in this case a relatively good prognosis and a questionable role for translocations involving the 14q32 locus."
2694	"Second malignancies are frequent complications in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Patients with this leukemia may develop large cell lymphoma (LCL) known as Richter's syndrome (RS). RS occurs in CLL patients of about 3% and may develop in a single lymph node or more often in a group of nodes. However, in some patients extranodal localization of aggressive lymphoma in RS has been observed. Besides LCL, Hodgkin's disease, prolymphocytoid leukemia, multiple myeloma and acute lymphoblastic leukemia may also occur as RS  variants. The origin of lymphoid cells in RS remains tentative. However, CLL and  RS originate from the same clone for some patients, whereas, in other patients cells of aggressive lymphoma do not have the features of the same clone as the CLL cells. The prognosis of RS is poor. Survival in different studies will be usually 2-5 months. The secondary development or coexistence of myeloproliferative disorders or myelodysplastic syndrome and solid tumors have also been rarely documented in CLL patients. It is of great concern that therapy  may further increase the risk of a second neoplasm. However, until now, there are no clear evidence that alkylating agents or purine nucleoside analogs may be associated with an increased incidence of second malignancies in patients with CLL. In this review, epidemiology, biology, clinical characteristic and treatment approaches in RS and other secondary neoplasms in patients with CLL are discussed."
2695	"We tested a set of commercially available probes to determine the feasibility and accuracy of FISH in the detection of abnormalities in 13 patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) with a particular aggressive clinical disease. We utilized three different probes for the 13q12-14 region, one for the centromeric  region of chromosome 12, one for the P53 gene at 17p13.1 and one for 3'-5' IGH at 14q32, covering the entire region of IGH, thus potentially allowing to detect more rearrangements. Conventional cytogenetic study showed a normal karyotype in  8/13 patients. FISH was able to detect chromosomal abnormalities in 10/13 pts (85%): +12 in 4 pts (38%); del 13q in 4 (38%); del 17p in 3 (35%); del of 5'-IGH  in 1 (15%). In conclusion FISH confirmed its ability to improve the detection of  cytogenetic abnormalities especially in patients with an aggressive disease."
2696	"BACKGROUND: An insect bite-like reaction and exaggerated reactions to insect bites are nonspecific phenomena described primarily in association with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), but also with other hematological malignancies. Two cases of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), one associated with an insect bite-like reaction and the other with a true hypersensitivity to mosquito bites, have previously been reported in the English language literature. The pathogenesis of  the skin eruption may be related to the release of different cytokines that also  trigger an IgE elevation and dermal eosinophils. CASE REPORT: We describe two additional cases of MCL associated with an insect bite-like reaction. One patient had been diagnosed with MCL 4.5 years prior to the appearance of the skin eruption, and in the other patient the skin symptoms preceded the diagnosis of the MCL by 2 years and led to its diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: Insect bite-like reaction may appear in patients with MCL. It is important to recognize this entity because it may be the presenting sign of MCL."
2698	"BACKGROUND: Haematological malignancies are not uncommon in our area. Due to inadequate diagnostic facilities and lack of health education they are diagnosed  at an advanced stage when treatment is either impossible or very difficult. In our study, sixty patients with haematological malignancies were studied from 1-1-1999 to 1-1-2001, at Ayub Teaching Hospital. Abbottabad. METHODS: Patients were interviewed in detail, a thorough physical examination and blood tests including haemoglobin estimation, total and differential leukocyte count, platelets count, reticulocyte count and blood film examination was done on each patient. Bone marrow examination for routine giemsa staining and cytochemistry was also done in each case. Trephine biopsy was done in selected cases. RESULTS: About 35.9% patients had acute myeloid leukemia, while 19.15% patients had acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Non Hodgkin's lymphoma was seen in 15.39% cases. Among chronic leukemias, chronic lymphocytic leukemia outnumbered chronic  myeloid leukemia (13.91% against 10.76%). Multiple myeloma was seen in 4.61% patients while a single patient had Hodgkin's disease. Male to female ratio in haematological malignancies was 1.4:1 and majority of the patients (66.66) belonged to two districts (i.e. Mansehra and Abbottabad). Low grade fever, progressive pallor, weakness and body aches were the commonest symptoms (70% cases) while pallor was the frequently observed sign. Medium age for acute myeloid and acute lymphoblastic leukemia was 26 years and 7 years respectively. For chronic myeloid and chronic lymphocytic leukemia it was 22 years and 56 years respectively. In case of non Hodgkin's lymphoma it was 22.5 years. CONCLUSION: In our study acute myeloid leukemia was the commonest type of haematological malignancy. Males were affected more than the females. Majority of the patients belonged to districts Mansehra and Abbottabad. Non specific symptoms like low grade fever, progressive pallor and bodyaches were the commonest symptoms while pallor was the most frequently observed sign."
2699	"PURPOSE: Genomic aberrations and mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (VH) gene have been shown to be among the most important predictors for outcome in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). In this study, we report on differential gene expression patterns that are characteristic for genetically defined B-CLL subtypes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred genetically well-characterized B-CLL samples,  together with 11 healthy control samples, were analyzed using oligonucleotide arrays, which test for the expression of some 12,000 human genes. RESULTS: Aiming at microarray-based subclassification, class predictors were constructed using sets of differentially expressed genes, which yielded in zero or low misclassification rates. Furthermore, a significant number of the differentially expressed genes clustered in chromosomal regions affected by the respective genomic losses/gains. Deletions affecting chromosome bands 11q22-q23 and 17p13 led to a reduced expression of the corresponding genes, such as ATM and p53, while trisomy 12 resulted in the upregulation of genes mapping to chromosome arm 12q. Using an unsupervised analysis algorithm, expression profiling allowed partitioning into predominantly VH-mutated versus unmutated patient groups; however, association of the expression profile with the VH mutational status could only be detected in male patients. CONCLUSION: The finding that the most significantly differentially expressed genes are located in the corresponding aberrant chromosomal regions indicates that a gene dosage effect may exert a pathogenic role in B-CLL. The significant difference in the partitioning of male and female B-CLL samples suggests that the genomic signature for the VH mutational status might be sex-related."
2700	"The natural peptide polymyxin B (PMB) is a well-known and potent antibiotic that  binds and neutralizes bacterial endotoxin (LPS), thus preventing its noxious effects among LPS-mediated endotoxin shock in animal models. We have investigated the effect of PMB on responses mediated by the P2X(7)R in HEK293 and K562 cells transfected with P2X(7) cDNA and in mouse and human macrophages. In addition, in  view of the potential exploitation of P2X(7)-directed agonists in antitumor therapy, we also investigated the effect of PMB in B lymphocytes from patients affected by chronic lymphocytic leukemia. PMB, at an optimal concentration dependent on the given cell type, greatly potentiated the effect of nucleotide-mediated P2X(7) stimulation. In particular, ATP-mediated Ca(2+) influx, plasma membrane permeabilization, and cytotoxicity were enhanced to an extent that, in the presence of PMB, cells were killed by otherwise ineffective nucleotide concentrations. The synergistic effect due to the combined application of ATP and PMB was prevented by incubation with the irreversible P2X blocker oxidized ATP (oATP), but not with the reversible antagonist 1-(N,O-bis(1,5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-N-methyl-l-tyrosyl)-4-phenilpiperazine (KN-62). Cells lacking P2X(7) were fully insensitive to the combined stimulation  with PMB and ATP. Furthermore, PMB at the concentrations used had no untoward effects on cell viability. These results point to PMB as a useful tool for the modulation of P2X(7)R function and suggest that care should be used in the evaluation of ATP-stimulated immune cell responses in the presence of PMB as they may not solely be affected by removal of contaminating LPS."
2701	"The release of soluble forms of CD80 provides a potentially powerful mechanism for the modulation of anti-tumor responses. In this report we investigated whether a soluble form of CD80 (sCD80) circulates in vivo and whether levels are  altered in patients with hematological malignancies. Circulating sCD80 was detected by ELISA in all normal donor (0.024-0.318 ng/ml) and patient (0.02-3.75  ng/ml) blood analyzed. The majority of acute myeloid leukemia (13/17) and multiple myeloma (11/12) patients had normal sCD80 levels. Significantly elevated levels were detected in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL, P = 0.0001) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL, P = 0.0002) patients. MCL patients had the highest levels with 8/9 having levels > 0.318 ng/ml. Increased sCD80 levels in CLL were significantly associated with poor prognosis markers such as low platelet (P = 0.01) and hemoglobin (P = 0.002) levels, elevated WBC counts (P = 0.03) and expression of CD38 (P = 0.048). The immunoreactivity of the sCD80 in both normal  and patient plasma was inhibited by the presence of CTLA-4-Ig, suggesting sCD80 is functional. Comparison of sCD80 and soluble CD86 levels demonstrated that these molecules were independently elevated in 39% of patients. The finding that  a proportion of CLL and the majority of MCL patients contain elevated levels of sCD80 and the demonstration that sCD80 can interact with CTLA-4-Ig suggests a potential role for sCD80 in modulating anti-tumor responses during the malignant  process."
2702	"The mutational status of immunoglobulin variable region genes (Ig VH) is a well established prognostic parameter in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Recently, a subset of genes with a characteristic expression profile correlating with the mutational status of B-CLLs has been identified. One of the overexpressed genes in the prognostically unfavorable group of CLL patients with unmutated Ig VH genes encodes for the protein tyrosine kinase ZAP-70, which is physiologically involved in T-cell signaling. Since ZAP-70 has been described to be prognostically relevant in CLL, we analyzed the possible relationship of its expression to the mutational status of Ig VH genes as well as to other prognostic factors in CLL and indolent lymphomas. The mutational status of Ig VH genes was analyzed by seminested PCR, direct sequencing and comparison with the sequences of the EMBL databases in 60 samples of patients with B-CLL and 18 samples of patients with indolent B-cell malignancies. ZAP-70 protein expression was assessed in all samples by immunoblotting and for semiquantitative analysis the ratio of ZAP-70 to tubulin expression was calculated. ZAP-70 protein was found to be expressed in all investigated B-cell malignancies. Expression levels varied within a wide range in each entity. The highest mean level of ZAP-70 expression was observed in unmutated B-CLLs, however, with broad expression variability. High levels of ZAP-70 expression correlated with higher stage Binet B or C and with unmutated Ig VH genes. Overall survival rates estimated by Kaplan-Meier curves did not differ among patients with high or low ZAP-70 expression. We conclude that ZAP-70 is associated with the mutational status of Ig VH genes, but this expression pattern is not present in all individual cases. Furthermore, high levels of ZAP-70 correlated with Binet stages B or C indicating an involvement of ZAP-70 in mechanisms promoting growth of B-CLL cells."
2703	"The primary abnormality in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a defect in apoptosis, probably related to alterations in the expressions of Bcl-2 family members. In transgenic mice over expressing the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family member, myeloid cell factor-1 (Mcl-1), B cell lymphomas occur. Moreover, mice conditional for the loss of Mcl-1 display a profound reduction in B and T lymphocytes. This suggests that Mcl-1 is an essential survival factor in lymphocytes. In the present study, we have evaluated the role of Mcl-1 in CLL. Mcl-1 protein expression was measured by Western blot analysis in the CLL cells of 45 patients and correlated with clinical variables and survival. Mcl-1 levels  were similar in 29 patients to normal B and T lymphocytes, were decreased in 8 patients and increased in 12 patients. An inverse correlation was found between Mcl-1 expression and Rai stage (P = 0.001). When assessed by flow cytometry, Mcl-1 expressions were normally distributed among CLL cells in individual patients and the mean levels correlated with those obtained by Western blotting.  To evaluate the role of Mcl-1 in drug resistance, Mcl-1 levels were sequentially  measured in the leukemic cells of 4 CLL patients during therapy with fludarabine  (Flu). The Mcl-1 levels were found to increase in 2 patients while the peripheral blood lymphocyte counts dropped, suggesting that the residual drug-resistant cells had the highest Mcl-1 levels. Primary CLL cells were also treated with chlorambucil (CLB) or Flu in vitro and the Mcl-1 levels decreased correlating with the sensitivity of these cells to undergo apoptosis. Drug sensitivities of the CLL cells to CLB and Flu were also measured by MTT assay and the concentrations of drug required to decrease cell viability by 50% (IC50) varied from 1.9 to 9.27 microM for Flu (median, 9.4 microM) and 10 to 32.5 microM (median, 5.5 microM) for CLB. The sensitivities of the leukemic cells to CLB correlated inversely with Mcl-1 levels (P < 0.05). These results suggest that Mcl-1 may contribute to cell survival in CLL."
2704	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells develop resistance to nucleoside analogs over time. This chemoresistance may be caused by selection for B-CLL cells with defects in the particular apoptosis pathway triggered by these drugs. Therefore, anticancer agents that induce apoptosis through alternative pathways might be useful in treating chemoresistant B-CLL. Farnesyltransferase inhibitors (FTIs) are a class of synthetic drugs with definite molecular targets, which have demonstrated cytotoxicity against leukemic cell lines. We have studied the ex vivo effect of the FTI BMS-214662 on cells from 18 patients with B-CLL. Low concentrations (<1 microM) of BMS-214662 prevented farnesylation of the chaperone marker HDJ-2 and had no effect on Akt activation. BMS-214662 induced apoptosis in B-CLL cells from all patients studied, including those showing resistance to cladribine and fludarabine ex vivo and in vivo. Treatment with BMS-214662 induced loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)), phosphatidylserine exposure, proapoptotic conformational changes of Bax and Bak,  reduction in Mcl-1 levels and activation of caspases 9 and 3. The general caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-fmk did not prevent BMS-214662-induced cell death. These results  indicate that BMS-214662 may be a useful drug for treating B-CLL and, in particular, an alternative for the therapy of purine analog-resistant or relapsed B-CLL."
2705	"The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performed a phase 2 study in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) of oral theophylline, a methylxanthine that inhibits cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases, thereby inducing the intracellular accumulation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). In 25 patients with Rai stages 0-I, theophylline, 200 mg given orally every 12 h was well tolerated. There was one complete response after 22.5 months of treatment, which continues at 27+ months, and 18 other patients had stable disease. In vitro exposure of patients' lymphocytes to aminophylline (75-250 microg/ml), the soluble form of theophylline, resulted in dose- and time-dependent induction of apoptosis in 9/20 patients studied. Apoptosis was documented flow-cytometrically by monitoring the  expression of bcl-2 and bax, forward light scatter, fluorescence intensity of binding of CD45 antibody, and the binding of annexin. Patients whose leukemic lymphocytes were susceptible to apoptosis induction by aminophylline in vitro experienced a significantly longer progression-free survival than patients whose  cells were resistant to the drug in culture (P=0.025). This suggests that in a CLL population treated with theophylline, induction of an apoptotic response to the drug in vitro is prognostic for absence of clinical progression."
2707	"The clinically most suitable method for minimal residual disease (MRD) detection  in chronic lymphocytic leukemia is still controversial. We prospectively compared MRD assessment in 158 blood samples of 74 patients with CLL after stem cell transplantation (SCT) using four-color flow cytometry (MRD flow) in parallel with consensus IgH-PCR and ASO IgH real-time PCR (ASO IgH RQ-PCR). In 25 out of 106 samples (23.6%) with a polyclonal consensus IgH-PCR pattern, MRD flow still detected CLL cells, proving higher sensitivity of flow cytometry over PCR-genescanning with consensus IgH-primers. Of 92 samples, 14 (15.2%) analyzed in parallel by MRD flow and by ASO IgH RQ-PCR were negative by our flow cytometric assay but positive by PCR, thus demonstrating superior sensitivity of  RQ-PCR with ASO primers. Quantitative MRD levels measured by both methods correlated well (r=0.93). MRD detection by flow and ASO IgH RQ-PCR were equally suitable to monitor MRD kinetics after allogeneic SCT, but the PCR method detected impending relapses after autologous SCT earlier. An analysis of factors  that influence sensitivity and specificity of flow cytometry for MRD detection allowed to devise further improvements of this technique."
2708	"AIM: Since 1979, we have studied subtotal splenectomy. This procedure has been used in over 180 patients to treat splenic trauma, portal hypertension, myeloid metaplasia due to myelofibrosis, Gaucher's disease, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, retarded growth and sexual development associated with splenomegaly, and disorders of the pancreatic tail. The aim of this study is to determine the feasibility, reliability and safety of the subtotal splenectomy performed by laparoscopic means. METHODS: An experimental study was conducted in accordance with the International Guiding Principles for Biomedical Research Involving Animals. Fourteen adult mongrel dogs of both sexes were divided into 2 groups (n=7): Group 1 -- laparoscopic subtotal splenectomy, preserving the upper pole supplied by splenogastric vessels; the splenic section, hemostasis and closure was done with  a 45 mm linear laparoscopic surgical stapler; Group 2 -- total splenectomy was performed through a median laparotomy. After 3 months, we accomplished hematological, immunological and scintigraphic exams in all animals. Sections of  the remnant spleens, livers and lymph nodes were histologically processed. RESULTS: Blood loss was minimal and all animals survived to operation and during  the 3 months follow-up. Reduction (p<0.05) of the platelets was verified in Group 1. The rest of the hematological mean values remained normal. The remnant spleens, livers and lymph nodes showed normal histological aspects, with increasing amounts of polymorphonuclear cells observed in both groups. CONCLUSION: It is feasible and safe to perform subtotal splenectomy by laparoscopic means in dog."
2709	"The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma) is a member of  the nuclear receptor family that forms heterodimers with retinoid X receptor. These heterodimers bind to DNA and activate the transcription of target genes. Here, we report that the PPAR gamma receptor protein is expressed in primary myeloid and lymphoid leukemias and in lymphoma and myeloma cell lines. In this study, we compared the activity of several PPAR gamma ligands including BRL49653  (rosiglitazone), 15-deoxy-Delta 12,14-prostaglandin J(2), and the novel triterpenoid 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid on leukemia cells. Exposure to these PPAR gamma ligands induced apoptosis in myeloid (U937 and HL-60) and lymphoid (Su-DHL, Sup-M2, Ramos, Raji, Hodgkin's cell lines, and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia) cells. A similar exposure to these PPAR gamma ligands induced the differentiation of myeloid leukemic cells. A combination of PPAR gamma ligands with a retinoid X receptor agonist (i.e., LG100268) or a retinoic acid receptor agonist (i.e., all trans-retinoic acid) enhanced differentiating and growth-inhibitory effects. 2-Cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid induced differentiation and apoptosis with much greater potency than the other PPAR gamma ligands in established cell lines and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia samples. Exposure to 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid induced mitochondrial depolarization and caspase activation, which was associated with apoptosis induction. In Bcl-2-overexpressing chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, the small-molecule Bcl-2 inhibitor HA14-1 sensitized these cells to 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9-dien-28-oic acid-induced apoptosis. These results suggest that PPAR gamma ligation alone and in combination with retinoids holds promise as novel therapy for leukemias by activating the transcriptional activity of target genes that control apoptosis and differentiation in leukemias."
2710	"Despite the rapid and widespread integration of chimeric CD20 monoclonal antibody (mAb), rituximab, into the management of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, its efficacy remains variable and often modest when used as a single agent. To develop more potent reagents, human immunoglobulin transgenic mice were used to generate a panel of immunoglobulin G1kappa (IgG1kappa) CD20 mAbs. All reagents bound strongly to CD20(+) cells and recruited mononuclear cells for the lysis of malignant B cells. However, 2 mAbs, 2F2 and 7D8, were exceptionally active in complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), being able to lyse a range of rituximab-resistant targets, such as CD20-low chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), in the presence of human plasma or unfractionated blood. Further analysis showed  that 2F2 and 7D8, like rituximab, redistributed CD20 into Triton X-100-insoluble  regions of the plasma membrane, but that they had markedly slower off-rates. To determine whether off-rate influenced CDC, a non-complement activating F(ab')(2)  antihuman kappa reagent was used. This reagent markedly slowed the off-rate of rituximab and increased its CDC activity to that of 2F2 and 7D8. Thus, with increasing evidence that mAb therapeutic activity in vivo depends on complement activation, these new CD20 reagents with their slow off-rates and increased potency in CDC hold considerable promise for improved clinical activity."
2711	"The importance of genetic factors in etiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is suggested by family and population studies. However, the spectrum of malignancies sharing common genetic factors with CLL and the effects of sex and age on familial risk are unknown. We used the Swedish Family-Cancer Database to test for increased familial risks of CLL and other lymphoproliferative tumors. Cancer diagnoses from 1958 to 1998 were assessed in 14 336 first-degree relatives of 5918 CLL cases and in 28 876 first-degree relatives of 11 778 controls. Cancer risks in relatives of cases were compared with those in relatives of controls using marginal survival models. Relatives of cases were at significantly increased risk for CLL (relative risk [RR] = 7.52; 95% confidence interval [CI],  3.63-15.56), for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (RR = 1.45; 95% CI, 0.98-2.16), and for Hodgkin lymphoma (RR = 2.35; 95% CI, 1.08-5.08). CLL risks were similar in parents, siblings, and offspring of cases, in male and female relatives, and were not affected by the case's age at diagnosis. Anticipation was not significant when analyzed using life table methods. We conclude that the familial component of CLL is shared with other lymphoproliferative malignances, suggesting common genetic pathways. However, because clinically diagnosed CLL is uncommon, absolute excess risk to relatives is small."
2712	"SJG-136 (NSC 694501) is a novel DNA cross-linking agent that binds in a sequence-selective manner in the minor groove of the DNA helix. It is structurally novel compared with other clinically used DNA cross-linking agents and has exhibited a unique multilog differential pattern of activity in the NCI 60-cell line screen (i.e., is COMPARE negative to other cross-linking agents). Given this profile, we undertook a preclinical evaluation of SJG-136 in primary tumor cells derived from 34 B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients. SJG-136 induced apoptosis in all of the B-CLL samples tested with a mean LD50 value (the concentration of drug required to kill 50% of the cells) of 9.06 nmol/L. Its cytotoxicity was undiminished in B-CLL cells derived from patients treated previously, those with unmutated VH genes, and those with p53 mutations (P=0.17; P=0.63; P=0.42, respectively). SJG-136-induced apoptosis was associated  with the activation of caspase-3 that could be partially abrogated by the caspase-9 inhibitor Z-LEHD-FMK. Furthermore, SJG-136 did not trigger the phosphorylation of p53 or the up-regulation of GADD45 expression in B-CLL cells whereas the cross-linking agent chlorambucil elicited both of these effects. This suggests that SJG-136 cross-linking adducts are not subject to p53-mediated DNA excision repair mechanisms in B-CLL cells. Taken together, these data demonstrate a novel mechanism of action for SJG-136 that appears to circumvent the effects of poor prognostic markers. This unique cytotoxicity profile warrants further investigation and supports the evaluation of this agent in Phase I clinical trials for patients with B-CLL."
2714	"CD70, the cellular ligand of the TNF receptor family member CD27, is expressed transiently on activated T and B cells and constitutively on a subset of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and large B cell lymphomas. In the present study, we used B cells constitutively expressing CD70 to study the functional consequences  of signaling through CD70. In vitro, CD70 ligation with anti-CD70 mAbs strongly supported proliferation and cell cycle entry of B cells submitogenically stimulated with either anti-CD40 mAb, LPS, or IL-4. In this process, the cell surface receptors CD25, CD44, CD69, CD95, and GL7 were up-regulated, whereas the  expression of CD21, CD62L, surface IgM (sIgM), and sIgD was decreased. Addition of CD70 mAb to low dose LPS-stimulated CD70-positive B cells strongly diminished  IgG secretion and enhanced production of IgM. Signaling through CD70 on B cells was dependent on the initiation of both PI3K and MEK pathways. In vivo exposure to either CD70 mAb or the CD70 counterreceptor CD27 down-regulated CD62L and sIgM on CD70-positive B cells. CD70 signaling during T cell-dependent immune responses also decreased IgG-specific Ab titers. Together, the in vitro and in vivo data demonstrate that CD70 has potent reverse signaling properties in B cells, initiating a signaling cascade that regulates expansion and differentiation."
2715	"The t(12;14)(q23;q32) breakpoints in a case of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) were mapped by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and Southern blot analysis and cloned using an IGH switch-gamma probe. The translocation affected a productively rearranged IGH allele and the carbohydrate  (chondroitin 4) sulfotransferase 11 (CHST11) locus at 12q23, with a reciprocal break in intron 2 of the CHST11 gene. CHST11 belongs to the HNK1 family of Golgi-associated sulfotransferases, a group of glycosaminoglycan-modifying enzymes, and is expressed mainly in the hematopoietic lineage. Northern Blot analysis of tumor RNA using CHST11-specific probes showed expression of two CHST11 forms of abnormal size. 5'- and 3'-Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends (RACE) revealed IGH/CHST11 as well as CHST11/IGH fusion RNAs expressed from the der(14)  and der(12) chromosomes. Both fusion species contained open reading frames making possible the translation of two truncated forms of CHST11 protein. The biological consequence of t(12;14)(q23;q32) in this case presumably is a disturbance of the  cellular distribution of CHST11 leading to deregulation of a chondroitin-sulfate-dependent pathway specific to the hematopoietic lineage."
2716	"The term "B-cell small lymphocytic lymphoma" (B-SLL) is generally reserved for patients with lymph node masses that show the histology and immunophenotype of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) but who are not leukemic. The aim of  our study was to define clinical factors that predict for survival in B-SLL. Thirty-nine patients with B-SLL and with less than 5,000 mature-appearing lymphocytes/microL in the peripheral blood were studied. The median follow-up of  survivors was 6.6 years (range, 1.6-12.3 years). The estimated 5-year overall survival (OS) and failure-free survival (FFS) were 66% and 23%, respectively. In  the univariate analysis, significant adverse predictors for OS were age > or =60  years, B symptoms, elevated serum LDH, low hemoglobin (<11 g/dL), and high International Prognostic Index (IPI) score (3-5). In multivariate analysis, the IPI score was the only significant predictor of OS. Anemia and B symptoms were additionally predictive of poor OS in patients with low IPI scores."
2717	"Fludarabine, the current standard treatment for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), can induce apoptosis in CLL cells in vitro, and a number of molecular mechanisms contribute to its cytotoxicity. Using gene expression profiling, we investigated the molecular consequences of fludarabine treatment of patients with CLL in vivo. In 7 patients with CLL, a consistent gene expression signature of in vivo fludarabine exposure was identified. Many of the fludarabine signature genes were known p53 target genes and genes involved in DNA repair. In  vitro treatment of CLL cells with fludarabine induced the same set of genes as observed in vivo, and many of these genes were also induced by in vitro exposure  of CLL cells to ionizing radiation. Using isogenic p53 wild-type and null lymphoblastoid cell lines, we confirmed that many of the fludarabine signature genes were also p53 target genes. Because in vivo treatment with fludarabine induces a p53-dependent gene expression response, fludarabine treatment has the potential to select p53-mutant CLL cells, which are more drug resistant and associated with an aggressive clinical course. These considerations suggest that  fludarabine treatment should be given in strict accordance to the current National Cancer Institute (NCI) guidelines that have established criteria of disease activity that warrant treatment."
2718	"BACKGROUND: The CD52 antigen is a glycoprotein anchored on the cell membrane of mature B and T lymphocytes, monocytes, and eosinophils. Alemtuzumab (CAMPATH-1H;  anti-CD52) is currently approved for the treatment of patients with refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The authors investigated the possibility that CD52 may be shed from cells and, once soluble, may bind to injected alemtuzumab,  forming immune complexes. METHODS: The authors used Western blot analysis, immunoprecipitation, and enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay to investigate the presence of soluble CD52 (sCD52) in the plasma specimens of 117 patients with CLL. They also used in vitro mixing experiments to examine the ability of sCD52 to compete with cells and sequester therapeutic alemtuzumab. RESULTS: The authors detected high levels of sCD52 in the plasma specimens of patients with CLL. sCD52 can compete with cells in vitro for binding to alemtuzumab, and can form complexes in patients receiving alemtuzumab. Plasma levels of sCD52 were found to be correlated (r)with Rai stage (P = 0.0001), beta-2-microglobulin (beta-2M) levels (P = 0.00002), soluble CD23 levels (r = 0.42, P < 0.001), and immunoglobulin mutation status (P = 0.003). In the multivariate analysis adjusted for beta-2M level, patients with sCD52 levels > 2336 nM/L had a nearly 4-fold increase in risk of death. Higher levels of plasma  alemtuzumab were achieved when levels of sCD52 were lower. CONCLUSIONS: These data not only demonstrated that sCD52 was detectable and useful in the staging and monitoring of patients with CLL, but also showed that sCD52 formed immune complexes with alemtuzumab and may influence the efficacy and toxicity of alemtuzumab therapy."
2719	"Advanced-stage follicular lymphoma (FL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) cannot be  cured using conventional chemotherapy. Fludarabine, the most widely used purine analog, exhibits a particularly high level of activity against small lymphocytic  lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Numerous studies have investigated the efficacy of fludarabine as a single agent or in combination with other cytostatic compounds in the treatment of FL and MCL. Hematologic toxicity is the most commonly observed adverse event in patients treated with fludarabine, but serious infectious complications are relatively rare. Fludarabine monotherapy has proven to be particularly effective in the treatment of FL; however, complete responses (CRs) are observed in only approximately 20-40% of all cases. In contrast, combinations containing fludarabine and anthracyclines or alkylating agents have yielded superior response rates and longer periods of progression-free survival (PFS), and the addition of the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab appears to yield even better results. In a randomized trial, an immunochemotherapy regimen consisting of a fludarabine-containing combination and rituximab resulted in superior remission and survival rates compared with the fludarabine-containing combination alone. In summary, fludarabine has proven to be a safe and effective agent in the treatment of indolent lymphoma. In particular, combinations containing fludarabine, anthracyclines and/or alkylating agents, and rituximab have yielded remarkable CR and PFS rates. Consequently, current research efforts have focused on the use of fludarabine-containing combinations in the first-line treatment of FL and MCL."
2720	"Translocations or deletions involving the 11q23 region have been observed in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute myelocytic leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). BAC probes encompassing the D11S29 and D11S924 markers and flanking the MLL gene were used in dual color fluorescence in situ hybridization. Fifteen patients with hematologic malignancies and cytogenetic abnormalities of 11q23 were analyzed. The BAC and MLL probes demonstrated split signals in five of 7 ALL or AML cases with translocations of 11q23. Of the remaining 2 cases, one had normal signals for both probe sets and the other had a submicroscopic deletion of the MLL 3' region. In one case of AML with del(11)(q23), deletion of the MLL 3' region and the region telomeric to the MLL gene was seen. Three CLL cases with deletion of part or the entire 11q23 region showed deletion of one copy of MLL, but retention of the region telomeric to MLL. However, in four MDS cases with deletions involving the 11q23 region, deletions of both the MLL gene and the flanking regions of the MLL gene were observed. Hence, the deletions on 11q23 are different but overlapping for CLL and MDS, implicating different genes involved for these diseases."
2721	"Mutational status of immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region (IgVH) genes, along with CD38 expression, is a prognostic marker in B-cell chronic lymphocytic  leukemia (B-CLL). Configuration of IgVH genes displaying > 2% mismatch has been shown to correlate with longer survivals. In a series of 64 B-CLLs, we failed to  confirm the prognostic value of the IgVH gene mutational status by using the suggested cutoff. However, the IgVH mutational status maintained its prognostic value only when evidence of antigen-driven selection could be documented. This was accomplished by applying statistical methods aimed at evaluating a significant skewing of replacement mutations from framework to complementary determining regions, as it occurs during germinal center differentiation of B cells. These data caution against wide application of the 2% somatic mutation cutoff as a prognostic determinant without demonstration of antigen-driven selection."
2722	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has a heterogeneous clinical course and outcome. Recent advances in the diagnosis and molecular characterization of CLL permit improved prediction of disease prognosis, which could result in better management. We review the biology and diagnosis of CLL and the role of analysis of immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region mutation status, molecular cytogenetics (interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization), and the expression  of CD38 and ZAP-70 in the evaluation and management of patients with CLL."
2724	"We have collected, by an active retrospective survey, all the cases of hematologic malignancies (HM) newly diagnosed during the time period 1974-1993 in the resident population of Sardinia. Diagnosis was deemed valid, after consultation of clinical records, in more than 90% of the 7264 collected cases. The number of newly diagnosed cases by year more than doubled during the 20-year  period investigated. This striking increase can be only partially accounted for by ageing of population. Indeed, age-specific and age-adjusted rates of most of HM increased during this period, although Hodgkin Disease (HD), Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) and Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) were notable exceptions. The observed increase in rates is likely, in a large part, to be fictitious, due  to easier access to a health care system, which in the meantime, improved its diagnostic efficiency. This was particularly evident for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL), Multiple Myeloma (MM) and some others myelo- and lympho-proliferative disorders, but its relevance declined after 1984-1989. A likely true increase in occurrence was evidenced for Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas (NHL)  and similarly, although to a lesser extent and more doubtful, for Myelodysplasias (MDS) and Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML). At the end of the studied period each type of HM presented age and sex distributions and age-adjusted rates that show only minor differences from those reported for other western countries. No argument emerged to suggest that any genetic peculiarities of the Sardinian population might have affected the occurrence of HM. The confounding effects of improved diagnostic efficiency have prevented a reliable assessment of influence  on incidences of environmental and socio-economic changes that, in relatively recent times, have occurred in Sardinia."
2725	"In the present work we have quantified some enzymatic activities, related to NAD+ metabolism, in lymphocytes of healthy donors and of patients affected by B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL): NADase activity for NAD+ degradation and NMN adenylyltransferase (NMNAT) activity for NAD+ biosynthesis. Most of the samples under investigation (12 B-CLL patients and 12 healthy donors) presented the enzymatic activities assayed. No significant differences in terms of specific activity have been found between ill and healthy subjects. Nevertheless by expressing the activity as mU/10(9) cells (nmol min(-1) 10(9) cells) we observed  significantly higher values of both enzymatic activities, involved in the NAD+ metabolism, in healthy donors with respect to the B-CLL patients."
2727	"Although novel therapies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia have resulted in higher hematologic response rates, the complete eradication of disease rarely occurs. Alemtuzumab (Campath-1H) seems to be extremely effective in this role in pretreated patients. The authors used a molecular semiquantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method to assess the ability of alemtuzumab to induce PCR negativity in eight patients pretreated with fludarabine. IgH rearrangement was coamplified with a housekeeping gene and fluorescent PCR products were analyzed on a DNA automatic sequencer. Each patient was evaluated at diagnosis, after fludarabine, and after Campath-1H. The median interval between the last therapy course with fludarabine and the start of Campath-1H was 14 weeks. Patients received subcutaneous doses up to 10 mg, three times a week, for 12 weeks, with a median dose of 190 mg. After six cycles with fludarabine, only one patient (12.5%) achieved molecular remission, and in three other patients IgH levels decreased by 0.5 to 1 log. At the beginning of Campath-1H administration, all patients were PCR positive, including the one previously found to be negative. At the end of treatment, five patients achieved molecular remission (62.5%), four of them within 1 month after the end of therapy. Seventy-two percent of responses, with 43% of complete responses, were documented on bone marrow smears. A significant reduction of lymph node and spleen diameters was noted in 50% and 33% of patients, respectively. Four patients showed grade 2 skin reaction at the site of the subcutaneous injection and grade 1 or 2 fever. Two patients developed neutropenia (grade 2 and 3) and two hemolytic episodes. Three patients showed cytomegalovirus and one herpes zoster and Epstein-Barr virus reactivation. These  results show that Campath-1H represents an efficacious in vivo purging tool with  a safe profile."
2728	"The analysis of apoptosis in cell populations involves the detection of their specific lineage antigen (LAg) expression. This experimental approach relies on their assumed constant expression, but it is unclear whether such expression is actually maintained during cell death. We examined whether the loss of LAgs is a  common feature of apoptotic lymphocytes and whether some might completely lose their LAgs. The changes in the expression of CD3, CD5, CD8, CD4, CD28, CD56, and  CD19 were monitored in highly purified lymphocyte populations obtained by negative selection in a fluorescence-activated cell sorter. These were cultured for 24 h with or without phytohemagglutinin or staurosporin. For each LAg-positive subset studied, apoptosis was consistently more common among cells showing partial or total loss of LAg expression compared with cells maintaining their initial LAg levels. The kinetics of expression loss was rapid for CD8, CD56, and CD28, and more than 80% of initial expression was lost in the early stages of apoptosis but was slower for CD3, CD5, and CD4. For CD3 and CD5, expression was dependent on the apoptotic stimulus used. It is interesting that loss of antigen expression was independent of cell size. This phenomenon was also found in nonmanipulated, highly pure CD19 B lymphocytes of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from B chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. Loss of LAg expression appeared to be a common feature of apoptotic lymphocytes under all the conditions assayed. The different kinetic patterns of LAg loss suggest apoptotic  cells might actively regulate this process."
2729	"Richter's syndrome (RS) is a high-grade large cell lymphoma arising in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The prognosis of RS is very poor  and the development of RS is a serious complication of CLL. We present a case of  a patient with a 4-year history of B-cell CLL who developed diffuse large B-cell  nasal lymphoma. The patient exhibited good response to chemotherapy and irradiation and achieved complete remission. Five months later, the patient suffered leptomeningeal involvement and has been treated with repeated intrathecal chemotherapy. Leukemic cells of the patient expressed CD13. CD13+ CLLs have been reported to have an unfavorable prognosis and this case may support the view."
2730	"Current methods for the detection of IgVH mutational status in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), which identifies 2 subgroups of patients with significantly different outcomes, are laborious, expensive and do not lend themselves to a routine diagnostic setting. With the introduction of BIOMED-2 primers, a rapid protocol is now available. This study evaluated the protocol by  examining DNA from 100 CLL patients. Conventional methods using RNA, and fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) analysis for recurring chromosomal abnormalities, were carried out on 30 and 60 of these patients, respectively. There was complete concordance between the BIOMED-2 protocol and the RNA based method, both in mutational status and gene usage, whilst unmutated IgVH genes showed association with 17p13 and 11q23 deletions, and trisomy 12, associated with poor and intermediate outcomes, respectively. This study demonstrates that it is feasible to use the BIOMED-2 protocol in the diagnostic profile of CLL patients, obviating the need for inclusion of surrogate markers such as ZAP-70."
2731	"Waldenström's macroglobulinemia is caused by several B-cell proliferative disorders including lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, marginal zone B-cell lymphoma, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma. Differential diagnosis  between lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue is particularly difficult as there is a considerable overlap in histological presentation. We report a case of Waldenström's macroglobulinemia with involvement of the peripheral blood, bone marrow and stomach. Serum chemistry revealed an IgM of 5.4 g/dl, but Bence-Jones  protein in urine was negative. Abnormal lymphoid cells were detected in both blood and the bone marrow. Flow cytometry of the bone marrow aspirate showed that majority of cells were CD20(+), CD38(+), expressing immunoglobulin lambda light chain, but CD5(-) and CD10(-). Gastric biopsies revealed infiltration of the gastric mucosa by small lymphoid cells showing plasmacytoid differentiation and occasional Dutcher bodies. Lymphoepithelial lesions and Helicobacter pylori were  not seen. Thus, the differential diagnosis between lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma was raised. To resolve this, we performed BCL10 immunohistochemistry and reverse transcriptional polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the API2-MALT1 fusion transcript of t(11;18)(q21;q21). Both bone marrow and gastric biopsies showed strong BCL10 nuclear staining, similar to that seen in t(1;14)(p22;q32) positive mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma, but absence of the API2-MALT1 fusion transcript. To further ascertain whether the detection of t(1;14)(p22;q32) and t(11;18)(q21;q21) can be reliably used for the differential diagnosis between lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma, we screened for these translocations  by BCL10 immunohistochemistry in 58 lymphoplasmacytic lymphomas and RT-PCR for t(11;18)(q21;q21) in 40 lymphoplasmacytic lymphomas, respectively. None of the lymphoplasmacytic lymphomas studied harbored these translocations. Thus, detection of t(1;14)(p22;q32) and t(11;18)(q21;q21) is useful in the differential diagnosis between lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma."
2733	"Previous studies suggest that the diversity of the expressed variable (V) region  repertoire of the immunoglobulin (Ig)H chain of B-CLL cells is restricted. Although limited examples of marked constraint in the primary structure of the H  and L chain V regions exist, the possibility that this level of restriction is a  general principle in this disease has not been accepted. This report describes five sets of patients, mostly with unmutated or minimally mutated IgV genes, with strikingly similar B cell antigen receptors (BCRs) arising from the use of common H and L chain V region gene segments that share CDR3 structural features such as  length, amino acid composition, and unique amino acid residues at recombination junctions. Thus, a much more striking degree of structural restriction of the entire BCR and a much higher frequency of receptor sharing exists among patients  than appreciated previously. The data imply that either a significant fraction of B-CLL cells was selected by a limited set of antigenic epitopes at some point in  their development and/or that they derive from a distinct B cell subpopulation with limited Ig V region diversity. These shared, stereotyped Ig molecules may be valuable probes for antigen identification and important targets for cross-reactive idiotypic therapy."
2734	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized anti-CD52 antibody licensed for refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), when given intravenously at 30 mg thrice weekly. However, the intravenous route is associated with infusion-related reactions and is inconvenient. We measured blood concentrations in 30 relapsed patients treated with intravenous alemtuzumab and in 20 patients from a previously untreated group who received similar doses subcutaneously. Highest trough samples in the intravenous group were less than 0.5 microg/mL to 18.3 microg/mL (mean 5.4 microg/mL). The cumulative dose required to reach 1.0 microg/mL was 13 mg to 316 mg (mean 90 mg). Higher blood concentrations correlated with the achievement of better clinical responses and minimal residual disease. The highest measured concentrations in the subcutaneous group were similar (0.6 microg/mL to 24.8 microg/mL, mean 5.4 microg/mL). However, the cumulative dose to reach 1.0 microg/mL was higher: 146 mg to 1106 mg (mean 551 mg). No antiglobulin responses were detected in 30 patients given intravenous alemtuzumab whereas 2 of 32 patients given subcutaneous alemtuzumab made substantial anti-idiotype responses. Thus, subcutaneous alemtuzumab achieved concentrations similar to those for intravenous alemtuzumab, although with slightly higher cumulative doses. Subcutaneous alemtuzumab is more convenient and better tolerated but may be associated with some patients forming anti-alemtuzumab antibodies, particularly those patients who were previously untreated."
2735	"Little is known about the expression levels or function of micro-RNAs (miRNAs) in normal and neoplastic cells, although it is becoming clear that miRNAs play important roles in the regulation of gene expression during development [Ambros,  V. (2003) Cell 113, 673-676; McManus, M. T. (2003) Semin. Cancer Biol. 13, 253-258]. We now report the genomewide expression profiling of miRNAs in human B  cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) by using a microarray containing hundreds of human precursor and mature miRNA oligonucleotide probes. This approach allowed us to identify significant differences in miRNome expression between CLL samples  and normal CD5+ B cells; data were confirmed by Northern blot analyses and real-time RT-PCR. At least two distinct clusters of CLL samples can be identified that were associated with the presence or absence of Zap-70 expression, a predictor of early disease progression. Two miRNA signatures were associated with the presence or absence of mutations in the expressed Ig variableregion genes or  with deletions at 13q14, respectively. These data suggest that miRNA expression patterns have relevance to the biological and clinical behavior of this leukemia."
2737	"OBJECTIVES: To estimate and compare the recurrence rates of basal cell carcinoma  (BCC) after Mohs surgery in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and  controls and to evaluate differences among histologic subtypes of BCC. DESIGN: Retrospective assessment of clinical histories, postoperative notes, and  surgical photographs. SETTING: Tertiary-care institution (Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn). PATIENTS: Twenty-four patients with CLL who underwent Mohs surgery for 33 BCCs and 66 controls matched for sex, age, and surgical year who underwent Mohs surgery for BCC of the head and neck from May 1988 through September 1998. RESULTS: Among the 24 patients with CLL who underwent Mohs surgery for 33 BCCs, there were 4 recurrences. The cumulative incidence of recurrence on a per-tumor basis was 3% at 1 year, 12% at 3 years, and 22% at 5 years. Basal cell carcinoma  was 14 times more likely to recur in patients with CLL than in controls (P =.02). Overall, there were no significant differences between patients with CLL and controls in preoperative tumor size (median, 1.6 cm vs 1.4 cm; P =.18) and proportion of aggressive histologic subtypes of BCC (58% vs 41%; P =.12). CONCLUSIONS: Recurrence rates of BCC are significantly higher after Mohs surgery  in patients with CLL. Overall, patients with CLL do not appear to have significantly larger BCCs or more aggressive histologic subtypes of BCC. In patients with CLL, close surveillance is warranted for recurrence of BCC and a decreased threshold is indicated for subsequent biopsies."
2738	"Engagement of the T-cell receptor (TCR) results in the activation of Lck/Fyn and  ZAP-70/Syk tyrosine kinases. Lck-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of signaling motifs (ITAMs) in the CD3-zeta subunits of the TCR is an initial step in the transduction of signaling cascades. However, zeta phosphorylation is also promoted by ZAP-70, as TCR-induced zeta phosphorylation is defective in ZAP-70-deficient T cells. We show that this defect is corrected by stable expression of ZAP-70, but not Syk, in primary and transformed T cells. Indeed, these proteins are differentially coupled to the TCR with a 5- to 10-fold higher  association of ZAP-70 with zeta as compared to Syk. Low-level Syk-zeta binding is associated with significantly less Lck coupled to the TCR. Moreover, diminished coupling of Lck to zeta correlates with a poor phosphorylation of the positive regulatory tyr352 residue of Syk. Thus, recruitment of Lck into the TCR complex with subsequent zeta chain phosphorylation is promoted by ZAP-70 but not Syk. Importantly, the presence of ZAP-70 positively regulates the TCR-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Syk. The interplay between Syk and ZAP-70 in thymocytes, certain T cells, and B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, in which they are coexpressed, will therefore modulate the amplitude of antigen-mediated receptor signaling."
2739	"We recently reported that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells synthesize and release vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. CLL B cells also express VEGF membrane receptors (VEGF-R1 and VEGF-R2), suggesting that they use VEGF as a survival factor. To assess the mechanism of apoptosis resistance related to VEGF, we determined the impact of VEGF on CLL B cells, and we studied the impact of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), a known receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitor, on VEGF receptor status and viability of CLL B cells. VEGF165 significantly increased apoptotic resistance of CLL B cells, and immunoblotting revealed that VEGF-R1 and VEGF-R2 are spontaneously phosphorylated on CLL B cells. EGCG significantly increased apoptosis/cell death in 8 of 10 CLL samples measured by annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) staining. The increase in annexin V/PI staining was accompanied by caspase-3 activation and poly-adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase (PARP) cleavage at low concentrations of EGCG (3 microg/mL). Moreover, EGCG suppressed the proteins B-cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (Bcl-2), X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), and myeloid cell leukemia-1 (Mcl-1) in CLL B cells. Finally, EGCG (3-25 microg/mL) suppressed VEGF-R1 and VEGF-R2 phosphorylation, albeit incompletely. Thus, these results suggest that VEGF signaling regulates survival signals in CLL cells and that interruption of this autocrine pathway results in caspase activation and subsequent leukemic cell death."
2740	"Novel therapeutic approaches with conventional chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody combinations have improved the complete remission rates in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. However, cure remains elusive, particularly in fludarabine-refractory patients, whose prognosis remains poor. Autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT) has been explored for such patients, lengthening the time to treatment failure in selected patients, but there is little hope that it  will improve the cure rate. The strategy is particularly ineffective in patients  with poor biological prognostic factors, such as abnormal cytogenetics and unmutated immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region. Allogeneic SCT remains the  only curative approach, producing an extended disease-free survival in 25-60%, mainly via the graft-versus-leukemia effect. The treatment-related mortality with such an approach has been significant, however, with a 30-40% risk of death within 100 days of the transplant. Nonmyeloablative (NMA) conditioning regimens may produce high response rates and lower morbidity, especially for patients with chemosensitive disease. Randomized trials designed according to the new biologic  prognostic parameters described in chronic lymphocytic leukemia are required to better define the role of NMA SCT in the near future."
2741	"We investigated the usefulness of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) panels when testing for chromosomal aberrations of known prognostic significance  in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and multiple myeloma (MM). Our CLL panel included probes for 11q, 12 centromere, 13q, 14, and 17p. Karyotype and FISH were abnormal in 13 of 60 (21.6%) cases, two (3.3%) abnormal by karyotype alone, and 25 (41.6%) by FISH alone. Karyotype and FISH were normal in 16 (27%) patients, and 4 samples were unsuitable for karyotype analysis. One patient had an abnormality not included in the panel (20q deletion). FISH was abnormal in 19 cases (31.6%) with a normal karyotype and in 6 cases with no analyzable metaphases. Thirteen CLL cases with abnormal karyotypes were either confirmed or  clarified by FISH. The MM panel probes were 11q, 13q, 17p, and t(11;14). Karyotype and FISH were abnormal in 18 of 139 (13%) MM cases. Twenty patients (14.4%) had a normal karyotype and abnormal FISH. Two samples not suitable for metaphase analysis were abnormal by interphase FISH. Karyotype and FISH were normal in 94 (68%) patients. Five patients (3.6%) had chromosomal abnormalities not included in the panel. Compared to karyotyping alone, the FISH panels improved the detection rate of recurrent chromosomal aberrations in CLL from 22-63% and in MM from 15-29%."
2742	"The mutation status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions (IgVH) has been found to be a good prognostic indicator for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) because unmutated VH genes are associated with rapid disease progression and shorter survival time. To study the differences in gene expression between the Ig-unmutated and Ig-mutated CLL subtypes, we performed gene expression profiling on 31 CLL cases and investigated the VH gene mutation status by sequencing. The array data showed that the greatest variances between the unmutated (20 cases) and the mutated (11 cases) group were in expressions of  ZAP70, RAF1, PAX5, TCF1, CD44, SF1, S100A12, NUP214, DAF, GLVR1, MKK6, AF4, CX3CR1, NAFTC1, and HEX. ZAP70 was significantly more expressed in the Ig-unmutated CLL group, whereas the expression of all the other genes was higher  in the Ig-mutated cases. These results corroborate a recent finding, according to which the expression of ZAP70 can predict the VH mutation status and suggest that RAF1, PAX5, and other differentially expressed genes may offer good markers for differentiating unmutated cases from mutated cases and thus serve as prognostic markers."
2743	"We investigated CD19+CD34+ and CD19+CD34- B cells from cord blood (CB) and typical patients with B cell lineage acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL and B-CLL) in terms of expression and functions of CXCR5/CXCL13 and CCR7/CCL19. CXCR5 and CCR7 were selectively frequent expressed on B-ALL, B-CLL and CB CD19+CD34+ B cells, but not on CD19+CD34- B cells. Instead of induction of impressive chemotactic responsiveness, CXCL13 and CCL19 together induced significant resistance to TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in B-ALL and B-CLL but not CB CD19+CD34+ B cells. B-ALL and B-CLL CD19+CD34+ B cells expressed elevated level of Paternally Expressed Gene 10 (PEG10), and CXCL13 and CCL19 together significantly up-regulated PEG10 expression in the cells. We found that CXCL13 and CCL19 together by means of activation of CXCR5 and CCR7 up-regulated PEG10 expression and function, subsequent stabilized caspase-3 and caspase-8 in B-ALL and B-CLL CD19+CD34+ B cells, and rescued the cells from TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis. We suggested that normal lymphocytes, especially naive B and T cells,  utilized CXCR5/CXCL13 and CCR7/CCL19 for migration, homing, maturation, and cell  homeostasis as well as secondary lymphoid tissues organogenesis. Meanwhile certain malignant cells took advantages of CXCR5/CXCL13 and CCR7/CCL19 for infiltration, resistance to apoptosis, and inappropriate proliferation."
2744	"In certain countries outside of the United States, benzene remains a significant  occupational hazard. This article provides a brief historical perspective of benzene use and general aspects of benzene toxicology, focusing primarily on benzene-induced hematotoxicity and leukemogenesis. Although the causal relationship between benzene and acute myelogenous leukemia is unequivocal, there has been considerable debate regarding the potential role of benzene exposure in  the development of other hematopoietic malignancies, including chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and multiple myeloma. The relationship between benzene and these other diseases also  is discussed briefly."
2745	"Overexpression of Bcl-2 oncogene has been clinically associated with an aggressive clinical course, chemotherapy and radiotherapy resistance, and poor survival in patients with malignant B-cell disorders. Patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia, multiple myeloma, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma have limited therapeutic options. Preclinical and early clinical data have shown that Bcl-2 oncoprotein can be decreased by Bcl-2 antisense therapy. Also, downregulation of Bcl-2 protein can result in reversal of chemotherapy resistance and improved antitumor activity of biologic agents. Various clinical trials are evaluating the role of targeting Bcl-2 as a mechanism to enhance the antitumor potential of chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Early results from these clinical studies are encouraging and confirm the proof of principle for antisense therapy. As current data mature, these trials will hopefully validate preliminary results and establish Bcl-2 antisense as an important addition to the current armamentarium used in the treatment of patients with B-cell neoplasms."
2746	"A 70-yr-old man developed cough, chest pain, hemoptysis and a pulmonary infiltrate shortly after initiation of treatment with chlorambucil for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Chlorambucil was discontinued and an open lung procedure was performed with complete excision of the pulmonary lesion. The biopsy specimens showed histological alteration consistent with the diagnosis of bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (BOOP). There was no evidence of other known causes usually associated with BOOP. The patient recovered completely after surgery. This report suggests that BOOP must be considered in the differential diagnosis of respiratory symptoms and pulmonary infiltrates in patients treated with chlorambucil."
2747	"Considerable progress has been achieved in the comprehension of the pathogenesis, prognosis, assessment, and treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. However, this progress also has introduced new enigmas in the fields of biology, prognosis, and treatment. This article discusses some unanswered questions in these different topics."
2748	"Although important progress has been made in its management, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable with standard therapies. Hematopoietic stem-cell transplants (HSCT) are frequently being offered to individuals with CLL, the hope being that, as in other hematologic malignancies,  they can prolong survival in or even cure some patients. This article analyzes which patients with CLL are appropriate candidates for HSCT, current transplant procedures, results with autologous and allogeneic HSCT, and future trends in transplantation in this form of leukemia."
2749	"Therapeutic options for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have been limited, with low complete response rates (CR) and no treatments demonstrating a survival  advantage. The recent introduction of the monoclonal antibodies rituximab and alemtuzumab into clinical trials for patients with CLL has generated promising results. Rituximab targets the CD20 antigen and demonstrates varied single-agent  activity that is highly dependent upon the dosing schedule and treatment status of the patient. More importantly, when rituximab is combined with fludarabine or  fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, a high frequency of CR and prolonged progression-free survival are observed without an appreciable increase in significant toxicity. Alemtuzumab targets the more ubiquitously expressed CD52 antigen and is therefore associated with a higher frequency of toxicity, particularly immunosuppression, but has appreciable activity in fludarabine refractory CLL. Additionally, alemtuzumab is effective against CLL clones that have p53 mutations or deletions. Future efforts in developing combination strategies with rituximab, alemtuzumab, and potentially other new antibodies offer great promise for the future treatment of CLL."
2750	"The past three decades have brought major changes in the approach toward chronic  lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This disease was considered a simple form of leukemia for which the only goal of treatment was control of the leukocytosis and of the symptoms related to disease expansion. Many biologic discoveries have increased our understanding of the disease process. New prognostic markers have been identified and are being incorporated into clinical practice. Now, CLL is considered a complex and challenging leukemia for which multiple treatment options are emerging, from chemotherapy to monoclonal antibodies, from vaccines to immunomodulatory strategies. The evaluation of treatment results also has been revolutionized: clones carrying genetic aberrations are monitored, and patients who have had a response are assessed for the presence of minimal residual disease."
2751	"Mature leukemias and lymphomas are a heterogeneous group of lymphoproliferative neoplasias characterized by the accumulation of mature lymphocytes in lymph nodes, other lymphoid tissues, and peripheral blood. In this article we discuss molecular mechanisms leading to the pathogenesis of two major types of mature leukemias and lymphomas: mature T-cell leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia."
2752	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells have the profile of antigen (Ag) activated memory B cells but also show a constellation of T-cell-associated properties. We  suggest that the early transforming events may occur in an early lymphoid progenitor. This precursor differentiates into a mature B cell that, though retaining T-cell features, has a functional B-cell receptor that may allow Ag intervention to trigger clonal expansion. This model has to cope with the existence of at least two subsets of the disease as defined by their IgVH genes mutational status. Mutated cases have a lower capacity to interact with Ag and are reminiscent of anergic cells. This explains their less harmful behavior as compared with unmutated case, which have a more aggressive potential likely because they had the opportunity to acquire additional chromosomal aberrations after repeated rounds of Ag stimulation and replication."
2753	"Molecular genetic methods such as fluorescence in situ hybridization and DNA sequencing have greatly improved our understanding of pathogenic events and prognostic markers in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). There are genomic aberrations detected in over 80% of CLL cases, and genes potentially involved in  the pathogenesis were identified with ATM in a subset of cases with 11q deletion  and p53 in cases with 17p13 deletion. Genetic subgroups with distinct clinical features have been identified, such as 11q deletion, which is associated with marked lymphadenopathy and rapid disease progression, whereas 17p deletion predicts for treatment failure with alkylating agents, fludarabine, and short survival times. There is mutation status of the VH genes that allows the separation into patients with long (mutated VH) or short (unmutated VH) survival  times. V-gene usage, VDJ structure, and gene expression differences in the two subgroups allow insights into differential pathogenic mechanisms and provide further prognostic information (V3-21 usage, ZAP-70 expression). The VH mutation  status and genomic abnormalities have been shown to be of independent prognostic  value in multivariate analysis, seem to allow outcome predication irrespective of the clinical stage, and may therefore allow a risk assessment for individual patients early in the course of their disease."
2754	"Histologic and immunohistologic findings of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic leukemia are revised in the light of the more recent knowledge on the pathobiology of the disease. The guidelines for the optimal handling of the bioptic samples are provided. The relevance of the examination of trephines and surgical specimens is outlined with special reference to the identification of risk factors in individual patients."
2755	"In this article we provide a brief review of the two staging systems in chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and we discuss the more recently identified, new prognostic markers that are of interest to clinicians and researchers in this field."
2756	"This article describes the main defining criteria for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and its differential diagnosis from closely related B-cell disorders. In addition to the morphology of circulating lymphocytes, the key diagnostic aid is the "CLL score" based on the typical immunophenotype of CLL as  ascertained with five reagents: CD5, CD23, CD79b (or CD22), FMC7, and intensity of SmIg staining. The concepts of polyclonal and monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis  are defined with focus on the latter and its incidence in elderly individuals and its significant increase in healthy relatives from CLL families. The value of flow cytometry in the analysis of minimal residual disease after therapy also is  discussed with a comparison with findings in bone marrow trephine biopsies. No candidate gene has been linked to the high incidence of CLL (10%) seen in families of patients with this disease."
2757	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has been traditionally described as a disease characterized by an accumulation of quiescent small lymphocytes with decreased susceptibility to apoptotic cell death. However, small numbers of "atypical" lymphocytes and prolymphocytes (PL) are frequently observed in the bone marrow (BM) of patients with CLL. In this study, we examined BM biopsy and aspirate specimens obtained from seven patients with atypical CLL. Using a double labeling (Ki-67+/CD20+) immunohistochemical method, we found that an appreciable  number of the atypical CLL cells expressed the proliferation-associated protein Ki-67. Because CLL is characterized by a slow change in the peripheral blood (PB) lymphocyte count, we reasoned that a subpopulation of CLL cells probably undergoes spontaneous apoptosis. Using Western blot analysis, we observed expression of procaspase-9, procaspase-10, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase by the neoplastic cells in all seven cases of CLL, and procaspase-3 and procaspase-8 expression in six neoplasms. We also detected cleaved caspase-3 and cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase in four and five CLL cases, respectively. To determine whether CLL cells undergo spontaneous apoptosis, we performed the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay using BM biopsy specimens. We found TUNEL-positive lymphocytes in areas infiltrated by CLL. In summary, our data show that subpopulations of B-lymphocytes are proliferating or undergoing spontaneous apoptotic cell death in patients with atypical CLL."
2758	"Cladribrine (2-CdA), a purine analogue active on both dividing and resting lymphocytes, plays an important role in the treatment of indolent lymphoproliferative malignancies such as Hairy Cell Leukemia (HCL), Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL), Lymphoplasmocytic Lymphoma (LPL), Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (WM). With the aim of evaluating the efficacy and toxicity of low dose 2-CdA, 15 lymphoplasmocytic lymphoma patients, not eligible for more aggressive or standard therapies, because of age or poor performance status, were treated with the drug at a dose of 5 mg/m2, once a week for six total courses. All patients showed disease progression. Fourteen patients were valuable for response. In eleven out of these 14 (85.7%) disease progression stopped, with 21% having good hematological responses (one CR and two PR). The treatment was generally well tolerated, without serious infectious events. This schedule may be appropriate for the management of patients where the aim of the treatment is control of disease progression."
2760	"B cell neoplasms present heterogeneous patterns of lymphoid organ involvement, which may be a result of the differential expression of chemokine receptors. We found that chemokine receptor (CCR)7, CXC chemokine receptor (CXCR)4, or CXCR5, the main chemokine receptors that mediate B cell entry into secondary lymphoid tissues and their homing to T cell and B cell zones therein, were highly expressed in B malignancies with widespread involvement of lymph nodes. Conversely, those pathologies with little or no nodular dissemination showed no expression to very low levels of CCR7 and CXCR5 and low to moderate levels of CXCR4. These findings provide evidence for the role of CCR7, CXCR4, and CXCR5 in  determining the pattern of lymphoid organ involvement of B tumors. Functional studies were performed on B malignancies expressing different levels of CCR7, CXCR5, and CXCR4. Multiple myeloma (MM) cells did not express CCR7 nor CXCR5 and  did not migrate in response to their ligands; a moderate expression of CXCR4 on MM cells was accompanied by a migratory response to its ligand, CXCL12. By contrast, cells from B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) expressed the highest levels of these chemokine receptors and efficiently migrated in response  to all ligands of CCR7, CXCR4, and CXCR5. In addition, the migration index of B-CLL cells in response to both of the CCR7 ligands correlated with the presence  of clinical lymphadenopathy, thus indicating that the high expression of functional chemokine receptors justifies the widespread character of B-CLL, representing a clinical target for the control of tumor cell dissemination."
2761	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is phenotypically characterized by cell surface co-expression of CD19, CD20, CD5, and CD23. However, the concomitant presence of other antigens distinctive of a particular leukocyte subset, e.g. T cells, is an unusual finding in B-CLL. In the present report, a case of B-CLL with aberrant expression of the T-cell-associated antigen CD8 is described. Flow  cytometric analysis of the patient's cells demonstrated lack of CD38 expression,  and cytogenetic analysis by FISH did not show any abnormalities of chromosomes 17p, 11q, and 12. Furthermore, the B-CLL cells expressed only low levels of the tyrosine kinase ZAP-70, which was in agreement with the mutated status of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region gene (IgVH). In summary, the determined profile of prognostic markers together with the highly stable and indolent disease in the described patient suggest a good prognosis of B-CLL with  aberrant CD8 expression."
2762	"Routine cytogenetic analysis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (B-CLL/SLL) frequently fails to identify an abnormal clone due to the low rate of spontaneous mitoses and poor response to mitogen stimulation. Recent studies utilizing interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) suggest that prognostically significant chromosomal abnormalities occur more frequently in B-CLL/SLL than has been previously recognized. The purpose of this study was to compare the chromosomal abnormalities detected by karyotyping and FISH in cases of B-CLL/SLL, and to correlate these with clinical features and survival. Seventy-two cases were studied for chromosome 3, 12 or 18 aneuploidy, and for rearrangements involving 11q13, 11q23, 13q14, 14q32 and 17p13. The median age of the patients was 54 years (range, 30-87 years). Clinical staging of B-CLL patients showed that 70% of the patients were Rai stage 0, 1, or 2, and 30% stage 3 or 4. Karyotyping identified  chromosomal abnormalities in 31% of the cases, whereas FISH studies were abnormal in 72% of cases including 64% of the cases with normal karyotypes. The most common abnormalities were deletion 13q14 (46%), trisomy 12 (21%), and 14q32 rearrangements (21%). At diagnosis, patients with trisomy 12 were more likely to  have a high LDH (P = 0.04), but no other significant differences in the clinical  or laboratory features, Rai stage, or survival were found among patients with normal cytogenetics vs. those with chromosomal abnormalities. Univariate analysis showed that B-symptoms (P = 0.044), anemia (P = 0.0006), absolute lymphocytosis > or = 30,000/mm3 (P = 0.029), and Rai stage 3 or 4 (P = 0.0038) at initial presentation were associated with an increased risk of death, but only Rai stage  3 or 4 (P = 0.0038) was significant in multivariate analysis. Interphase FISH studies improve the cytogenetic diagnosis when performed in conjunction with karyotyping in B-CLL/SLL, but the prognostic relevance of various abnormalities could not be confirmed in this study."
2763	"This study aims to answer the question whether the World Health Organization (WHO) classification of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) can be practised to international standards at the Lymphoma Registry (LR) established at the Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, India. Furthermore, the study aims to identify differences in the distribution of NHL subtypes at this LR (likely to be representative of India) as compared to the rest of the world. A panel of 5 expert hematopathologists from the NHL Classification Project reviewed 200 consecutive NHL cases at the LR in January of 2001. These cases were accrued during August and September, 2000. On all cases, hematoxylin and eosin stains and appropriate immunostains were available for review. The diagnosis made by the host pathologist at the LR (KNN) and the initial diagnosis made by each of the expert hematopathologists was compared with the consensus diagnosis. A consensus  diagnosis was made by the 5 experts in 197 cases. The agreement of the host pathologist with the consensus diagnosis was 82% and the agreement of the individual experts with the consensus diagnosis varied from 76-88% (mean 82%). According to the consensus diagnosis, 80% of NHLs were of B-cell type, 18% were of T-cell type, and the immunophenotype could not be determined in the remaining  2% of cases. In conclusion, the WHO classification of NHL was properly utilized at the Lymphoma Registry, Mumbai, India, and geographic differences were noted in the distribution of NHL subtypes at the LR as compared to the rest of the world.  Precursor T lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma was more common in India (7%) than the rest of the world (1-4%), and indolent B-cell NHLs (29%) were less common than in the West. As compared to China and Japan, peripheral T-cell lymphoma (4.6%), extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma, nasal type (0.5%) and extranodal marginal  zone B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT-lymphoma) (2.6%)  were less common, but follicular lymphoma (15%) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (5%) were more common. This suggests that the distribution of the B-cell and T-cell lymphomas in the Indian population, except  for lymphoblastic lymphoma, lies in between the Western world (mainly Caucasian)  and the Orientals."
2764	"Studies to investigate signal transduction pathways that support viability and prevent apoptosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells (CLL) were initiated as a result of microarray cDNA analyses which revealed expression of genes whose products regulate cell cycle progression. Immunoblots revealed translation of several genes including caspases, cyclin D1, and the PI3-kinase dependent, survival kinase, Akt. Akt was found to be activated. Inhibition of PI3-kinase with specific inhibitor, LY294002, led to the induction of apoptosis that was caspase 8 dependent, but independent of Akt as LY294002 did not depress a high basal level of Akt activity found in CLL cells. Phosphorylation of Akt was maintained, enzymatic activity undiminished, and phosphorylation of substrates sustained. Caspases, however were activated, PARP cleaved and DNA fragmented. Caspase inhibitors revealed that initiator caspase 8 was required for classic apoptosis when PI3-kinase was inhibited, and specific activity assays demonstrated its early activation. GSK-3beta a kinase regulated via PI3-kinase dependent, down-stream kinases, was responsible for regulating cyclin D1 levels in CLL cells, but neither GSK-3beta nor calpain was responsible for induction of  apoptosis, or activation of executioner caspase 3, following LY294002 treatment.  PI3-kinase mediated protection against caspase activation in CLL B-cells therefore is not mediated through classic Akt survival pathways. The data further support the hypothesis that signal transducing, membrane associated receptors triggered by extrinsic factors, maintain CLL leukemic B-cell survival in vivo by  preventing caspase activation."
2765	"We recently reported that resveratrol, a grape-derived polyphenol, in vitro induces the apoptosis of leukemic B-cells and simultaneously inhibits the production of endogenous nitric oxide (NO) through inducible NO synthase (iNOS) down-regulation. The same results were observed in the present study with not only acetate derivatives of polyphenols, particularly the pentaacetate of -viniferin (resveratrol dimer), but also with a synthetic flavone (a diaminomethoxyflavone) in both leukemia B-cell lines and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients' cells. Moreover, flavopiridol, another flavone already known for its pro-apoptotic properties in B-CLL cells, was also found to down-regulate both iNOS expression and NO production. Thus, inhibition of the NO pathway during apoptosis of leukemia B-cells appears a common mechanism for several compounds belonging to two distinct families of phytoalexins, the flavones and grape-derived polyphenols."
2766	"New options are needed for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Proteasome inhibitors represent a potential therapeutic strategy. One such agent, bortezomib, was recently approved for the treatment of refractory multiple myeloma. In this study, lymphocytes were isolated from the blood of CLL patients, treated in vitro with bortezomib, and evaluated for apoptosis by flow cytometry.  Bortezomib promoted apoptosis in CLL cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner.  At 18 h incubation time, 10 nM bortezomib induced an average 4.27 fold (+/-2.57)  increase in the percentage of apoptotic cells versus untreated controls. These data indicate that bortezomib has in vitro activity in CLL and support further investigations of this promising new drug."
2767	"BACKGROUND & METHOD: The role of multidrug resistance (MDR) was investigated in patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PSC-833 was added to modified VAD (a 4-day infusion of vincristine, doxorubicin, with oral dexamethasone, every 3 weeks), in an attempt to improve the response rate (21%) in a prior study. Laboratory tests to determine MDR and apoptosis proteins were correlated with response. RESULTS: Two of the seven MDR-positive cases and one of the four MDR-negative patients achieved a partial response (no significant difference). No significant  correlation with response was found in any of the laboratory tests for apoptosis. CONCLUSION: VAD plus PSC-833 had the same (21%) partial response rate as a prior  ECOG study without PSC-833. No correlation of response with MDR or apoptosis testing was found. Other drug resistance factors must play a significant role in  determining the response of relapsed patients with CLL."
2768	"The progressive rise of mature CD5+ B lymphocytes, despite the low proportion of  proliferating cells, has led to the notion that B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is primarily related to defective apoptosis. The microenvironment likely plays a prominent role because the malignant cells progressively accumulate in vivo, whereas they rapidly undergo spontaneous apoptosis when cultured in vitro. To assess microenvironment-mediated survival signals, B-CLL cells were cultured with a murine fibroblast cell line, Ltk-, with and without an agonistic antibody to CD40. Spontaneous apoptosis was associated with the loss of Akt and NF-kappaB activities. Interactions with fibroblasts sustained a basal level of Akt and NF-kappaB activities, which was dependent on phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K). Constitutive activity of the PI3K pathway in B-CLL cells when cultured with fibroblasts prevented the downregulation of the prosurvival Bcl-2 family protein Bcl-xL and the caspase inhibitor proteins FLIPL  and XIAP, and consequently caspase-3 activation and apoptosis. CD40 crosslinking  in B-CLL cells did not further prevent murine fibroblasts-mediated apoptosis but  induced cell proliferation, which was associated with an increase of Akt and NF-kappaB activation compared with cells cultured with fibroblasts alone. The PI3K pathway seems to play a pivotal role in B-CLL cell survival and growth."
2769	"Using immunohistochemical methods, we evaluated zeta-associated protein (ZAP)-70  expression in 341 cases of non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphoma. In B-cell NHL, ZAP-70 was positive in five of six (83%) precursor B-lymphoblastic lymphoma, 11 of 37 (30%) chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), five of 39 (13%) mantle cell lymphoma, one of 12 (8%) Burkitt lymphoma, and one of 12 (8%) nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma. In 22 cases of CLL/SLL, seven of  nine (78%) with unmutated IgVH genes expressed ZAP-70, compared with one of 13 (8%) with mutated IgVH genes (P=0.0015 Fisher's exact test). ZAP-70 expression was not detected in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (n=26), extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (n=24), follicular lymphoma (n=21), plasma cell myeloma/plasmacytoma (n=10), lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (n=10), or splenic marginal zone lymphoma (n=6). In T/NK-cell NHL, ZAP-70 was positive in all extranodal natural killer (NK) / T-cell lymphoma, nasal-type (n=6) and enteropathy-type T-cell lymphoma (n=4), four of five (80%) subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma, six of eight (75%) mycosis fungoides, three of five (60%) precursor T-lymphoblastic lymphoma, 10 of 17 (59%) peripheral T-cell lymphoma, two of four (50%) blastic NK-cell lymphoma, one of three (33%) T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia, 13 of 52 (25%) anaplastic large cell  lymphoma, and one of six (17%) angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. Seven of 12 (58%) cutaneous CD30-positive lymphoproliferative disorders were also ZAP-70-positive. In Hodgkin lymphoma, ZAP-70 was negative in neoplastic cells in  all cases tested. ZAP-70 staining in B-cell lymphomas and reactive T cells was predominantly nuclear with variable cytoplasmic staining. By contrast, ZAP-70 staining in T/NK-cell lymphomas was heterogeneous, and a shift from predominantly nuclear to predominantly cytoplasmic staining was observed, particularly in those neoplasms with high-grade morphology. In summary, ZAP-70 is expressed by many lymphoma types, correlates with immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region gene mutational status in CLL/SLL, and can be detected reliably using immunohistochemical methods."
2770	"RNA interference, or RNAi, is designed to work by Watson-Crick base pairing and to result in a posttranscriptional block in protein synthesis. Antiapoptotic proteins are a major focus of cancer therapy and make attractive targets for RNAi. An IL-10 RNAi sequence was designed in accordance with Tuschl rules and was modeled to a hairpin configuration. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common leukemia in the Western world, the failure to undergo apoptosis may be responsible for the accumulation of malignant B-1 cells. Interleukin-10, despite controversy, has been shown to have antiapoptotic properties, and increased endogenous IL-10 production has been found in CLL by several labs. A malignant B-1 cell line, LNC, derived from an NZB mouse (a murine model for CLL)  was utilized as a target for IL-10 RNAi. Our earlier studies of antisense IL-10 resulted in antiproliferative and proapoptotic effects. The cytotoxic effects of  IL-10 RNAi were dose- and time-dependent, with an optimal dose 10-fold lower than that of antisense IL-10. IL-10 RNAi lowered IL-10 protein as measured by ELISA. 2 micro M IL-10 RNAi initiated a G2/M block and a decrease in the message for cdc25C, the M-phase inducer phosphatase. IL-10 RNAi efficiently induced apoptosis. Bcl7C, a member of the antiapoptotic Bcl family, was significantly down-regulated. IL-10 modulating Bcl7C expression represents a novel mechanism in the evasion of apoptosis. This approach, by itself or in conjunction with current therapies, merits consideration in similar B-cell malignancies."
2771	"The nucleoside analog 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (Cladribine, CdA) is used in the treatment of patients with several hematological malignancies. After administration of CdA, the major catabolite measured in plasma and urine is 2-chloroadenine (CAde). This study was performed to determine the pharmacokinetics after oral and intravenous (iv) infusion of CdA in patients treated for chronic lymphocytic leukemia and to evaluate the toxicity of CAde to  leukemia cells in vitro. CdA and CAde were also determined in plasma from 31 patients and in urine from 16 patients with reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic. The toxicity of CdA and CAde was also determined in leukemic cells from 7 patients by fluorometric microculture cyotoxicity assay. Five times more CAde was quantified after oral treatment compared with an iv infusion of CdA. After iv infusion, the half-life was the same for CdA and CAde,  but after oral administration the half-life was doubled for CAde. Excreted amount of CAde in urine constituted about 1.1% after iv infusion and 4.7% after oral CdA treatment. In vitro exposure of leukemia cells to CAde showed that it was eight times less toxic as compared to CdA. We conclude that CAde has a lower cytotoxic  effect than CdA but may contribute significantly to the cytotoxicity after oral administration."
2772	"This study investigated the role of several chemokines and their receptors on malignant B lymphocytes recovered from 13 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), 9 with hairy cell leukemia (HCL), 5 with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), 5 with marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MZL), 6 with small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), and 5 with follicular cell lymphoma (FCL). Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that CXCR4 and CXCR5 were expressed on all malignant and normal B cells. Considering CC receptors, CCR1 was expressed in 70% of patients with CLL and 40% of those with HCL but was lacking in patients with MCL, MZL, SLL, and normal B cells. CCR2 showed a heterogeneous pattern of expression. CCR3  was found in almost all patients with CLL and in the majority of those with HCL,  whereas it was usually lacking in patients with MZL and SLL and in healthy subjects. CCR5 was expressed in patients with HCL and MCL. Migration assays showed that different chemokines, mainly CXCL12 and CXCL13, are able to trigger migration of malignant B lymphocytes. Some of these chemokines induce calcium mobilization. These data indicate that different patterns of chemokine receptor expression identify different malignant B-cell subsets and that these receptors are functional and might play a role in malignant B-cell circulation."
2773	"We report the case of a 57-year-old man who developed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) several months after the initial diagnosis of Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome-positive (Ph(+)) chronic myelocytic leukemia. CLL cells were purified  by using fluorescence-activated cell sorting and further analyzed using interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization with probes to detect the BCR/ABL fusion gene. We provide evidence that the CLL cells arose in a Ph(-) clone."
2774	"We present a case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia associated with nephrotic syndrome. Renal biopsy revealed membranous glomerulonephritis accompanied by interstitial monoclonal lymphocytic infiltration. Combination therapy with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone (COP) was successful in inducing an effective response in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Improvement of renal function and proteinuria was also observed."
2775	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is associated with increased risk of malignancy, but the occurrence of other lymphomas, in particular T-cell lymphomas, is rare. We identified 7 cases of peripheral T-cell malignancy associated with B-cell-derived CLL from the files of two institutions over a 20-year period. The presence of both B and T lymphoproliferative disorders was confirmed in all cases by immunophenotype and in 6 cases by gene rearrangements.  Six patients developed peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL), unspecified, during the course of CLL (10-168 months). In all 5 evaluable cases, the cells had a cytotoxic T-cell phenotype; the sixth case was CD56+, but TIA-1 and Granzyme B could not be studied. A seventh patient with CLL developed mycosis fungoides, and an aggressive NK cell leukemia. To investigate possible risk factors for the development of PTCL, we screened 100 unselected peripheral blood samples from newly diagnosed CLL patients by PCR for the presence of clonal T cell populations. We found evidence of clonal T-cell expansion in 8 patients and increased lymphocytes with large granular lymphocyte morphology in 7 of 8 cases.  The immunophenotype was assessed by multicolor flow cytometry and in 4 cases the  T-cell expansion was composed of either CD3+/CD8+ or CD3+/CD4-/CD8- cells. The cytotoxic nature of the clonal T-cell expansions in the peripheral blood correlates with the cytotoxic nature of the PTCLs, but their role in the subsequent development of T-cell lymphomas is still unclear. PTCL following CLL should be distinguished from typical Richter syndrome, which it can mimic clinically."
2776	"TNR/11q#1 is a polymorphic trinucleotide (GCC)n repeat located within the minimal region of the 11q deletion in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). It was recently shown that certain alleles of this repeat are associated with a worse prognosis in CLL patients. To investigate the role of TNR/11q#1 variants as risk-modifying  factors in leukemogenesis, we conducted a case-control study on 113 acute lymphotic leukemia (ALL) patients, 82 CLL patients and 146 healthy controls of Russian origin. Comparison of allele and genotype distributions in the control, ALL and CLL groups, performed by Fisher's exact test with two-sized P-value, showed significant decrease in the presence of the GCC(6) allele in the ALL and CLL groups compared to controls. Moreover, 'rare' alleles GCC(7-8) and GCC(13-14) were significantly overrepresented in the ALL group versus controls. We found that CLL risk genotypes were those with both alleles containing more than 6 GCC repeats (P = 0,0212, odds ratio = 1,68 (95% CI, 1,121...2,531)). ALL risk genotypes include three allele combination variants: 1) both alleles containing more than 6 GCC repeats (P = 0,0019, odds ratio = 1,756 (95% CI 1,223...2,502));  2) one of the alleles containing 7 or 8 repeats (P = 0,0155, odds ratio = 18,22 (95% CI 1,93...136.37)); 3) one of the alleles containing more than 12 repeats (P = 0,0209, Odds ratio = 2,599 (95% CI 1,161...5,815)). Association of certain alleles and genotypes of the TNR/11q#1 repeat with both acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia suggests the presence of a cancer related gene, involved in  a wide spectrum of neoplasia, in the vicinity of this repeat."
2777	"B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a disease characterized by an accumulation of monoclonal B cells that are resistant to apoptosis. In chronic lymphocytic leukemia, the prognosis depends on the stage of the disease, according to the classifications of Rai and Binet. However, in recent years, the number of patients with very early disease (stage 0 of Rai) and without any clinical symptom, has considerably increased because of the extensive use of automatic apparatus for leukocyte counting and immunophenotypic analysis of lymphocytes. It has become, therefore, useful to find new prognostic criteria particularly for these patients. In the present study, 30 patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia were investigated for stage of the disease, survival, immunoglobulin gene rearrangements, presence of nurse like cells in in vitro cultures and spontaneous clinical lymph node regression. We observed that all these criteria are useful prognostic indexes for the disease."
2779	"Deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) is a key enzyme in the deoxynucleoside salvage pathway and in the activation of numerous nucleoside analogues used in cancer and antiviral chemotherapy. Recent studies indicate that dCK activity might be regulated through reversible phosphorylation. Here, we report the effects of a large panel of protein kinase inhibitors on dCK activity in the B-leukemia cell line EHEB, both in basal conditions and in the presence of the nucleoside analogue 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CdA) which induces activation of dCK. Except staurosporine and H-7 that significantly reduced the activation of dCK by CdA, no specific protein kinase inhibitor diminished basal dCK activity or its activation by CdA. In contrast, genistein, a general protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and  AG-490, an inhibitor of JAK2 and JAK3, increased basal dCK activity more than two-fold. Two specific inhibitors of the MAPK/ERK pathway, PD-98059 and U-0126, also enhanced dCK activity. These data suggest that the JAK/MAPK pathway could be involved in the regulation of dCK. Moreover, we show that the activity of dCK, raised by CdA, can return to its initial level by treatment with protein phosphatase-2A (PP2A). Accordingly, dCK activity in intact cells increased upon incubation with okadaic acid (OA) at concentrations that should inhibit PP2A, but not protein phosphatase-1. Activation of dCK by protein kinase inhibitors and OA  was also observed in CCRF-CEM cells and in chronic lymphocytic leukemia B-lymphocytes, suggesting a general mechanism of post-translational regulation of dCK, which could be exploited to enhance the activation of antileukemic nucleoside analogues."
2780	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) follows a heterogeneous clinical course, and several biological parameters have been investigated to try to predict its clinical outcome. New staging systems including cytogenetics and CD38 expression as predictive values have been developed. Deletions of 11q22.3 approximately q23.1 detected at diagnosis in cases of CLL patients have been associated with a relatively aggressive disease. This region, which contains the  ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) locus, may be implicated in the pathogenesis  of lymphoid malignancies. We developed a set of dual-color specific probes to evaluate the ATM deletion by means of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).  We also used flow cytometry to investigate CD38 expression. Forty-one patients with CLL or low-grade B-cell lymphomas were studied at diagnosis or before treatment. FISH showed that only three CLL patients had deletions in the 11q23 locus; all three had progressive disease and were resistant to treatment. These data show that our FISH set of probes efficiently detects ATM deletions in CLL. No correlation was found between ATM deletions and CD38 expression level. These results confirm the prognostic significance of ATM deletions in CLL."
2781	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of leukemia in adults, accounting for up to 25% of all newly diagnosed leukemia. Many cases of CLL have  a non-aggressive course and often do not require treatment, while other cases exhibit rapid progression within several years. Recent advances in the diagnosis  of CLL include the identification of several prognostic factors, such as ZAP70 expression and the absence of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements. These prognostic factors may identify subgroups of CLL patients who would benefit from  earlier treatment rather than "watchful waiting." New combination treatment regimens that include nucleoside analogs (fludarabine, cladribine, and pentostatin) and monoclonal antibodies (rituximab and alemtuzumab) have resulted  in improved rates of complete remissions in newly diagnosed and relapsed CLL patients; many of these are molecular complete remissions. The only known cure for CLL remains allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation. Newer conditioning strategies with lower, nonmyeloablative doses of chemotherapy and radiation therapy have made this option available to a broader group of patients, including older and sicker populations. These advances in prognostic factors, chemotherapy  regimens, and allogeneic transplantation will likely enable increases in survival for CLL patients."
2782	"Rare examples of high-grade gliomas show focal epithelial differentiation, which  may require distinction from colliision tumors. These epithelial constituents are not well-characterized immunophenotypically and have rarely been subjected to genotyping. We describe a case of a 54-year-old female with a short history of hemiparesis who was found to have an absolute lymphocytosis and a heterogeneously enhancing frontotemporal tumor. Cytological and histological examination of brain biopsies confirmed the presence of a glioblastoma multiforme also containing CAM5.2/CK7/BerEP4/CEA/EMA-immunopositive and GFAP-immunonegative nests of epithelial cells with a high proliferative index and focal glandular differentiation. Hematological investigations confirmed a diagn of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with no demonstrable CNS involvement. Genetic analysis using microsatellite markers and specimens obtained by laser capture microdissection of the CNS tumor and normal brain tissue, showed that both the glial and epithelial components of the brain tumor had identical losses of 2/2 informative markers on chromosome 17p13 and 5/5 informative markers on chromosome 10q22-26. The glial and epithelial components also shared an identical 2 base pair deletion in the TP53 gene at codon 209, exon 6, introducing a stop codon at  codon 214. No losses at any of the above loci and no TP53 mutation were detected  in the leukemic cells. These results suggest both components of the brain tumor,  although differing in phenotype, share the same genetic lineage."
2783	"The association between angiogenin and cancer progression and poor outcome in solid tumors has been documented, but its significance in leukemias has not been  evaluated. Using an ELISA technique (Quantikine Human Angiogenin Immunoassay; R&D Systems), we measured serum angiogenin levels in 77 previously untreated Binet stage A B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients. No difference in angiogenin serum levels could be found between patients (median: 295 ng/mL; range: 74-1700) and 15 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (median: 264 ng/mL;  range: 29-1835) (P = NS; Mann-Whitney test). Increased angiogenin serum level was associated with higher LDH (P = 0.03) and beta2-m (P = 0.007) concentrations. However, angiogenin did not reflect the extent of bone marrow (BM) angiogenesis as evaluated by microvessel area (P = 0.611), circulating levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) (P = 0.873) and basic fibroblastic growth factor (FGF-2) (P = 0.421). When the 25 patients with available data were stratified into the four major cytogenetic categories (normal karyotype, 13q as a sole aberration, 12q trisomy, 11q or 17p deletion) and aberrations were compared with  angiogenin serum levels, no correlation was found (P = 0.651; Kruskall-Wallis test). A cut-off of angiogenin serum level corresponding to median (i.e. 330 ng/mL) or higher identified later upstaging and longer progression-free survival  (PFS). The 5-yr PFS was 51.5% for patients with angiogenin levels lower than median and 85% for patients with higher values [P = 0.03; hazard ratio (HR) = 2.86; 95% CI: 1.08-6.72]. Although in multivariate analysis only Rai substages (P = 0.00001) and peripheral blood lymphocytosis (P = 0.009) retained their prognostic significance, angiogenin could be incorporated into the Rai substages  thus leading to the identification of the following risk categories: (i) stage 0  (angionenin >330 ng/mL); (ii) stage 0 (angiogenin <330 ng/mL) + stage I-II (angiogenin >330 ng/mL); and (iii) stage I-II (angiogenin <330 ng/mL). The 40-month PFS were as follows: 85%, 65%, 25% (chi(2) for trend = 6.33; d.f. = 1; P = 0.01). In conclusion, serum angiogenin levels although not increased in comparison with healthy controls, may predict clinical outcome of patients with early CLL and help to refine Rai's stratification."
2786	"Although various cutaneous manifestations can occur in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), bullous lesions due to mosquito bites are rare. We describe a patient with a typical case of CLL complicated by exaggerated cutaneous response to mosquito bites. The symptoms of this patient were self-limited and not severe, but it has been reported that the treatment of such  symptoms is sometimes difficult. Because exaggerated cutaneous hypersensitivity to mosquito bites can be observed even before the diagnosis of hematological malignancies such as CLL, careful examinations are recommended to find underlying diseases in cases in which this type of cutaneous reaction occurs."
2787	"Survivin has been identified as one of the top 4 transcripts among 3.5 million human transcriptomes uniformly up-regulated in cancer tissues but not in normal tissues. Therefore, we quantitatively determined the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression profile for survivin by a real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique in 113 patients with leukemias, such as adult T-cell leukemia (ATL), acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myeloid leukemia in crisis, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and in 25 cell lines, including 7 ATL cell lines and 15 solid-tumor cell lines. Furthermore, we examined whether the plasma level of survivin protein as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) substituted for mRNA expression by PCR quantification. Gene expression was quantitatively confirmed to be up-regulated in approximately 90% of ATL and acute leukemia cases and in all of the cell lines tested, whereas it was down-regulated in almost all cases of CLL. Furthermore, with respect to the interpretation of the gene expression findings, attention was paid to standardization with a housekeeping gene, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), in the real-time PCR quantification, because the variability in GAPDH expression among the different cell types was significant. GAPDH expression was relatively low in ATL cells and  high in ALL and AML cells. The rates of increase in the levels of survivin protein in the plasma of ATL patients and in the supernatants from in vitro cultures of solid-tumor cell lines were low compared with rates of increase of the mRNA and protein level in the cells, suggesting that the protein levels in plasma do not always reflect survivin expression in tumor cells. Our findings indicate the potential clinical relevance of survivin quantified by real-time PCR but not for the protein level in plasma as determined by ELISA, especially in cases of ATL and acute leukemias."
2788	"Pre-treatment with bryostatin 1 (bryo) has been shown to potentiate the efficacy  of (2-chloro-2-deoxyadenosine, cladribine, 2-CdA) in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) by increasing the ratio of deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) to 5'-nucleotidase (5'-NT) activity. The bryo-induced increase in dCK/5'-NT activity alone has not been a conclusive indication of final clinical outcome. Therefore,  we used an ex vivo assay to investigate factors which may affect the bryo-induced enhancement of 2-CdA efficacy in B-CLL patient-derived samples. Bryo-induced increase in dCK/5'-NT was inversely associated with Rai stage CLL (r=-0.86). Increased dCK/5'-NT activity was not correlated with increased efficacy (cell death) or percentage of cellular [8-3H]-2-CdA converted to [8-3H]-2-CdATP ex vivo. Bryo pre-treatment increased the cellular uptake of [8-3H]-2-CdA and incorporation of [8-3H]-2-CdA metabolites into the DNA fraction. Cell death from  2-CdA was inversely correlated with bryo-induced activity of the DNA repair enzyme, DNA-PKcs, (r=-0.77). Thus, the ability of B-CLL to repair damaged DNA may be a more important predictor of the response to bryo/2-CdA and eventual clinical outcome than dCK/5'-NT activity. Additional CLL patients under bryo-2-CdA therapy are needed to verify these important observations."
2789	"In B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) the Rai and Binet staging criteria are not always able to accurately predict the prognosis of each patient. Rapidly  evolving, violent disease is often seen in the so-called "good-prognosis" group,  which highlights the need of additional and more refined prognostic markers. Several of these markers are described in the literature, with varying abilities  to predict patient survival. Among the promising prognostic markers is flowcytometric analysis of CD38 on the monoclonal B cells in CLL. Several studies have shown that expression of CD38 is associated with a decreased overall-, or progression free survival. CD38 expression may be analyzed as percentage positive cells or as antibodies bound per cell. Addition of CD38 to the flow cytometry antibody panel for B-CLL analysis is a relatively easy way to obtain important prognostic information."
2790	"We describe herein a case of symmetrical bilateral leukemia cutis on the eyelids, especially on the lower lids, in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The patient was a 63-year-old Japanese man who had been diagnosed with CLL. Eyelid swelling is well known to result from local skin or systemic diseases including tumors, hyperthyroidism, nephritic syndrome, and hypoalbuminemia. To our knowledge, symmetrical, bilateral, flesh-colored leukemia cutis on the eyelids has not been previously reported."
2793	"We report a case of Guillain-Barré Syndrome (GBS) which appeared after mobilization therapy in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). After obtaining a partial remission with four cycles of fludarabine at standard dose, the patient underwent to high-dose Cytoxan in order to mobilize CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells. During neutropenia the patient experienced  fever of unknown origin (FUO) and subsequently developed GBS with normalization of his neurologic condition after 2 months. It is possible that a viral-induced activation of an antigen-specific T and B-cell clone caused a local inflammation  and toxicity of Schwann cells with demyelination and axonal damage with a self-limited course."
2794	"We measured telomerase activity (TA) in bone marrow samples from 214 patients with CLL and correlated it with patients' characteristics and survival. In >50% of cases (126/214; 59%) no detectable TA was found. There was no difference in TA between previously treated (n = 153) and untreated (n = 61) patients (P = 0.4), or patients with various Rai (0-IV) stages (P = 0.85). TA correlated significantly with white blood cell and lymphocyte count (P = 0.02 and 0.01, respectively) but not with bone marrow cellularity, beta2-microglobulin (beta2M), or other patient characteristics. Patients who had no TA had slightly lower beta2M and lower lymphocyte counts (P = 0.5 and 0.04, respectively) as compared with patients with detectable TA. However, there was no correlation between TA and survival. This data suggests that TA may not play a significant role in the clinical behavior of CLL."
2795	"MS-275 is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor that has been reported to mediate its cytotoxic effect through generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS)  in proliferating hematopoietic cell lines. We examined efficacy of MS-275 in nonproliferating chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells from patients. In these cells, MS-275 demonstrated an in vitro LC(50) that was one log lower than for normal mononuclear cells. Following MS-275 treatment, histones H3 and H4 showed increased acetylation and HDAC enzymatic activity was reduced. Caspase-8, -9, and -3 were activated, and caspase substrates PARP and BID were cleaved. Additionally, FLICE-inhibitory protein (FLIP) was downmodulated following MS-275  incubation. MS-275 treatment caused detectable ROS generation after 15 h of incubation, which was blocked by the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-fmk. Overexpression  of Bcl-2 protein protected against MS-275-induced apoptosis. These data demonstrate that MS-275 is a promising therapy for the treatment of CLL, but that in contrast to previous reports, ROS generation does not precede commitment to apoptosis. Similar to many other therapeutic targets, MS-275-mediated apoptosis is reduced by overexpression of Bcl-2, justifying strategies to combine HDAC inhibitors with Bcl-2 antagonists."
2796	"Allogeneic stem cell transplantation following reduced-intensity conditioning is  being evaluated in patients with advanced B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). The curative potential of this procedure is mediated by donor-derived alloreactive T cells, resulting in a graft-versus-leukemia effect. However, B-CLL may escape T-cell-mediated immune reactivity since these cells lack expression of costimulatory molecules. We examined the most optimal method to transform B-CLL cells into efficient antigen-presenting cells (APC) using activating cytokines, by triggering toll-like receptors (TLRs) using microbial pathogens and by CD40 stimulation with CD40L-transfected fibroblasts. CD40 activation in the presence of IL-4 induced strongest upregulation of costimulatory and adhesion molecules on B-CLL cells and induced the production of high amounts of IL-12 by the leukemic cells. In contrast to primary B-CLL cells as stimulator cells, these malignant APCs were capable of inducing the generation of B-CLL-reactive CD8(+) CTL lines and clones from HLA class I-matched donors. These CTL lines and clones recognized and killed primary B-CLL as well as patient-derived lymphoblasts, but not donor cells. These results show the feasibility of ex vivo generation of B-CLL-reactive CD8(+) CTLs. This opens new perspectives for adoptive immunotherapy, following allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with advanced B-CLL."
2797	"Patients with B-type chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) segregate into 2 subgroups based on the mutational status of the immunoglobulin (Ig) V genes and the patients in these subgroups follow very different clinical courses. To examine whether dendritic cells (DCs) generated from CLL patients can be candidates for immune therapy, we compared the phenotypic and functional capacities of DCs generated from patients of the 2 CLL subgroups (normal age-matched subjects [normal-DCs]). Our data show that immature DCs from B-CLL patients (B-CLL-DCs) have the same capacity to take up antigen as those from normal controls. Furthermore, B-CLL-DCs generated from the 2 CLL subgroups up-regulated MHC-II, CD80, CD86, CD83, CD40, and CD54 and down-regulated CD206 in response to stimulation with a cocktail of cytokines (CyC) and secreted increased levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin (IL)-8, IL-6, IL-12 (p70), and RANTES in a manner typical of mature normal-DCs. Interestingly, CD54 was significantly more up-regulated by CyC in B-CLL-DCs compared with normal-DCs. Except for CD54, no significant differences in surface molecule expression were observed between normal-DCs and B-CLL-DCs. B-CLL-DCs from both subgroups, including 6 patients with VH1-69, that usually fare poorly, presented tetanus toxoid to autologous T cells in vitro similar to normal- DCs. Our data show that  DCs generated from the B-CLL subgroup with unmutated Ig V genes are functionally  normal. These results are very promising for the use of DCs from patients with poor prognosis for immunotherapy."
2798	"The review included 163 cases of paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP) reported between  1990 and 2003, including a new unique case of PNP associated with occult breast cancer and an ovarian cyst of borderline malignancy. Hematologic-related neoplasms or disorders were associated with 84% of the cases, with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (38.6%) as the most frequent, followed by chronic lymphocytic leukemia (18.4%) and Castleman's disease (18.4%). The non-hematologic neoplasms comprised  16% of all cases: epithelial origin-carcinoma (8.6%), mesenchymal origin-sarcoma  (6.2%), and malignant melanoma (0.6%). Carcinoma cases comprised 58% of the non-hematologic neoplasms. Carcinoma cases (n = 14) consisted of adenocarcinoma (n = 7), squamous cell carcinoma (n = 2), multiple skin tumors probably basal cell carcinoma (n = 1), and bronchogenic carcinoma (n = 1). Of the 10 (6.2%) sarcoma cases, there was one case each of leiomyosarcoma, liposarcoma, malignant  nerve sheath tumor, poorly differentiated sarcoma, reticulum cell sarcoma, dendritic cell sarcoma and inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor. The oral mucosa was involved in all of cases. Isolated oral ulcerations were the first sign in 45% of the cases. Diffuse and persistent oral ulcerations with a progressive course could be a sign of malignancy, either recognized or occult. In the absence of a clear diagnosis, malignancy should be suspected and extensive work-up performed. The full spectrum of signs of PNP may not be present initially. Repeated biopsies, direct and indirect immunofluorescence as well as screening indirect immunofluorescence on murine bladder are required for diagnosis. Clinicians should be highly suspicious when signs and symptoms suggestive of PNP  are present in cancer patients, of hematologic and non-hematologic origin."
2799	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) generally follows an indolent clinical course  and usually occurs in the elderly. However, the disease is heterogeneous with some patients having a more aggressive clinical course and short survival. Although the role of fludarabine in combination with other chemotherapy drugs and/or monoclonal antibody therapy appears promising, to date chemotherapy has not been curative in this disease. At present, the only potential cure for CLL appears to be stem cell transplantation (SCT), but its role in the management of  CLL has not been established. In particular, patient selection for consideration  of SCT, timing of SCT in the clinical course of CLL, selection of autologous versus allogeneic SCT, use of nonmyeloablative regimens, and exploitation of the  graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect are currently under investigation."
2800	"Monoclonal antibody (moAb)-based therapies are evolving as an integrated component in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Advantages such as different mechanisms of action (compared with those of chemotherapy), no or minimal stem cell toxicity, as well as the absence of hair loss and delayed nausea may result in a rapidly increasing usage of these agents in different phases of the disease. The combination of moAbs with chemotheraputic agents has shown promising results in early studies as well as their role in the eradication of minimal residual disease (MRD). The availability of an increasing number of new moAbs together with a better understanding of their effector function will hopefully lead to improved therapeutic outcomes for patients with CLL and related disorders."
2801	"While chemotherapy based on alkylating agents has been the standard treatment of  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) for decades, purine analogues and their combinations have emerged as effective new therapies for previously untreated and pretreated patients. As single agents, fludarabine and cladribine are the most promising, showing higher remission rates compared to chlorambucil. For younger and physically fit patients, the combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide  has shown benefit. Fludarabine plus epirubicin appears equally potent. The addition of monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab and alemtuzumab, to purine analogues alone or in combination seems to be even more effective for chemotherapy-naive and pretreated CLL patients. Another promising agent in the armamentarium of therapies for CLL is bendamustine, which has properties of both  an alkylating agent and a purine analogue. Clinical trials are ongoing with novel drugs that interfere with cell cycle regulation and signaling molecules in CLL, including flavopiridol, UCN-01, bryostatin 1, depsipeptide, and oblimersen. It remains to be seen whether these chemotherapeutic approaches offer real benefit for patients by prolonging survival with an improved quality of life."
2802	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has long been viewed as a relatively  homogeneous disease caused by the accumulation of monoclonal immature, immunoincompetent B cells with faulty apoptotic capacities. However, recent evidence, reviewed here, demonstrates that at least two different B-CLL subgroups exist with different clinical courses and outcomes. The malignant cells from both B-CLL subgroups are antigen-experienced cells that have a normal apoptotic apparatus and turnover continually. The leukemic cells of the two B-CLL subgroups have engaged antigen before transformation, although primarily the cells of patients in the poor outcome subgroup can respond to antigens following transformation. The difference in the ability to respond to antigen as a full-fledged B-CLL probably accounts for the different biological features and clinical outcomes of the patients in these subgroups."
2803	"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) comprises a substantial proportion of leukemias in adults in the western hemisphere. Male gender, increasing age, ethnicity (high in Caucasians, lowest in Asians), and family history are risk factors. Although no specific extrinsic etiologic factors have been established,  farming and pesticide exposure are associated with increased risk. Migration studies confirm that ethnic groups retain the risk associated with their origin rather than their new location, favoring a role for heredity. Kindreds with multiple cases of CLL have been well described in the literature and studies in large populations confirm that lymphoproliferative malignancies and especially CLL occur together at a rate that cannot be attributed to chance. Since environmental factors cannot readily explain the familial aggregations, a hereditary factor that affects susceptibility to CLL is likely. The identification of clones that are immunophenotypically identical to CLL in healthy individuals from CLL kindreds (14% to 18%) as well as in the general population (3.5% in age bracket >65 years) suggests a possible precursor condition, but longitudinal studies will be necessary to establish significance in the general population. Family (linkage) and population (candidate gene) studies to date have been too small to identify the specific genes that account for increased susceptibility; larger studies including planned consortia to identify additional high-risk kindreds for genetic studies, as well as the application of advanced technologies such as genomics, cytogenetic, expression, and proteomics, are widely expected to advance understanding over the next few years."
2804	"Several genetic abnormalities have been characterized in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) but these are predominantly secondary events and the initiating phenomena in the etiology of the disease are yet to be established. Studies of inherited susceptibility have identified the early oncogenic events in both familial and "sporadic" forms of several malignant disorders, and this may also be possible in CLL. However, the utility of linkage analysis in identifying a predisposition locus for the disease is limited because large multigenerational families segregating CLL are rare, while the more frequent small nuclear CLL families contain insufficient numbers of affected individuals. The power to detect predisposition gene(s) could be greatly increased by extending the number  of affected individuals within a particular family, for example, by identifying family members with subclinical levels of disease. High-sensitivity flow cytometry techniques, developed to monitor disease in CLL patients undergoing treatment, have allowed accurate enumeration of subclinical levels of CLL cells in healthy individuals from the general population and CLL families. Emerging evidence confirms the phenotypic, genotypic, and clinical associations between the aberrant cells in healthy individuals and those in CLL patients. The data suggest that inherited factors increase the susceptibility to both indolent and aggressive CLL, and they provide unbiased demonstration that the age of onset in  CLL families is younger than in the general population."
2807	"OBJECTIVES: Anaemia is common in patients with haematologic malignancies. In contrast to solid tumours there are only a few studies exploring anaemia in haematologic cancers. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of anaemia (haemoglobin [Hb] <12 g/dL) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), multiple myeloma (MM), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), and Hodgkin's disease (HD) who were scheduled to receive cyclic chemotherapy. Predictive factors for anaemia development and anaemia treatment were also assessed. METHODS: This prospective chart survey was conducted at 35 oncology centers in Austria. A total of 273 patients were followed through four cycles of nonplatinum chemotherapy, and Hb-levels and anaemia therapy were documented. RESULTS: At baseline, prevalence of anaemia was greatest in patients with MM (77.4%). Prevalence of anaemia increased for all malignancies after cycle 4, with the largest increases noted for patients with NHL (from 35.1% at baseline to 73.7%) and HD (from 21.9% to 54.5%). Cyclic chemotherapy and prior anticancer treatment indicated an increased risk for developing anaemia. Notably, 27.5% of patients with Hb levels <10.5 g/dL remained untreated. Transfusions were most often given to patients with severe anaemia (Hb < 8 g/dL), and erythropoietin most often given to patients with mild or moderate anaemia. CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirm that anaemia prevalence in patients with haematologic malignancies is high and increases with chemotherapy. The current practice of anaemia management in these patients leaves room for improvement."
2808	"In this study we investigated telomere restriction fragment (TRF) length in a panel of mature B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (MBCLDs) and correlated this parameter with histology and histopathogenesis in relation to the germinal center (GC). We assessed 123 MBCLD samples containing 80% or more tumor cells. TRF length was evaluated by Southern blot analysis using a chemiluminescence-based assay. GC status was assessed through screening for stable and ongoing somatic mutations within the immunoglobulin heavy-chain genes. Median TRF length was 6170 bp (range, 1896-11 200 bp) and did not correlate with patient age or sex. TRF length was greater in diffuse large cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma (medians: 7789 bp, 9471 bp, and 7383 bp, respectively) than in mantle cell lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (medians: 3582 bp and 4346 bp, respectively). GC-derived MBCLDs had the longest telomeres, whereas those arising from GC-inexperienced cells had the shortest (P < 10(-9)). We conclude that (1) TRF length in MBCLD is highly heterogeneous; (2) GC-derived tumors have long telomeres, suggesting that minimal telomere erosion occurs during GC-derived lymphomagenesis; and (3) the short TRF lengths of GC-inexperienced MBCLDs indicates that these neoplasms are good candidates for treatment with telomerase inhibitors, a class of molecules currently the subject  of extensive preclinical evaluation."
2809	"The finding that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) consists of 2 clinical subsets, distinguished by the incidence of somatic mutations in the immunoglobulin (Ig) variable region (V) genes, has clearly linked prognosis to biology. Antigen encounter by the cell of origin is indicated in both subsets by  selective but distinct expression of V genes, with evidence for continuing stimulation after transformation. The key to distinctive tumor behavior likely relates to the differential ability of the B-cell receptor (BCR) to respond. Both subsets may be undergoing low-level signaling in vivo, although analysis of blood cells limits knowledge of critical events in the tissue microenvironment. Analysis of signal competence in vitro reveals that unmutated CLL generally continues to respond, whereas mutated CLL is anergized. Differential responsiveness may reflect the increased ability of post-germinal center B cells  to be triggered by antigen, leading to long-term anergy. This could minimize cell division in mutated CLL and account for prognostic differences. Unifying features of CLL include low responsiveness, expression of CD25, and production of immunosuppressive cytokines. These properties are reminiscent of regulatory T cells and suggest that the cell of origin of CLL might be a regulatory B cell. Continuing regulatory activity, mediated via autoantigen, could suppress Ig production and lead to disease-associated hypogammaglobulinemia."
2810	"BACKGROUND: The objective of the current study was to assess the efficacy of combination therapy with fludarabine and mitoxantrone in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). METHODS: Eighty-eight patients were treated with fludarabine 30 mg/m(2) intravenously daily for 3 days and mitoxantrone 10 mg/m(2) on Day 1 (FN). Patients were divided into four groups based on expected response to single-agent fludarabine. These four groups included previously untreated patients, patients who previously were treated with alkylating agents, patients who were successfully treated with alkylating agents and fludarabine but who developed recurrent disease, and patients whose disease was refractory to fludarabine with  or without alkylating agents. RESULTS: The overall response rate was 66%. The response rates were 83% in previously untreated patients, 87% in patients previously treated with alkylating agents, 50% in patients whose disease was not refractory to fludarabine at the start of therapy, and 25% in patients whose disease was refractory to fludarabine. The complete remission (CR) rate was 20% for previously untreated patients, which was not significantly different from the CR rate for a group of historical control patients who were treated with single-agent fludarabine. The median follow-up was 8 years for surviving patients. The median progression free  survival was 24 months for all patients and 34 months for previously untreated patients. The median overall survival was 40 months, and the median survival of previously untreated patients was 88 months. The most common toxicities were myelosuppression and infection. Eleven patients (12.5%) developed a second malignancy after a median of 62 months. CONCLUSIONS: The FN regimen did not have a significant advantage over fludarabine alone in the treatment of patients with CLL."
2811	"Rabbit monoclonal antibody (MAb), which has become available only recently, theoretically combines the advantage of the high affinity attributable to its rabbit origin and the high specificity due to its monoclonal nature. Since immunohistochemical demonstration of cyclin D1 is notoriously difficult, this study aims to assess whether a newly available rabbit MAb against cyclin D1 (SP4) can improve the consistency of immunostaining, especially for the diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). A total of 150 cases of lymphoproliferative lesions,  including 30 cases of MCL, histologic mimickers of MCL, and various types of lymphomas and leukemias, were studied. Immunostaining was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections using a labeled streptavidin-biotin peroxidase system in an automated immunostainer. All cases of MCL expressed cyclin D1, with a higher median staining score (8 out of a maximum  of 12) compared with mouse MAb DCS-6 (score 4). In addition, 2 of 15 cases of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL), 3 of 12 cases of multiple myeloma, and 2 of 5 cases of hairy cell leukemia were also positive. Comparable staining results could also be achieved by an optimized manual staining protocol. This study thus confirms the superior performance of the rabbit MAb SP4, which should  permit consistent immunostaining for cyclin D1 to be readily achieved. The value  of cyclin D1 immunohistochemistry in the differential diagnosis of MCL from other low-grade B-cell lymphomas is also affirmed, but with the caveat that rare cases  of B-CLL can also be cyclin D1 positive."
2812	"Although interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is routinely used in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), differences in the chromosomal pattern with respect to morphological subtypes of CLL (typical CLL, CLL/PL, PLL) are still under debate. We studied 153 patients with CLL and correlated cytomorphology on peripheral blood stains with FISH analysis and other prognostic markers. The percentage of prolymphocytes was calculated as a continuous variable and followed published thresholds in parallel while being correlated to FISH analysis. Higher percentages of prolymphocytes were associated significantly with deletion of 17p13. Deletion of 17p13 was most frequently observed in patients with more than 30% prolymphocytes. Trisomy 12 was found mainly in cases with 6-30% prolymphocytes. The percentage of prolymphocytes did not correlate with deletions of 11q23 or with 13q14 abnormalities. In conclusion, we suggest that further research focus on the percentage of prolymphocytes in CLL. Doing so, biologically relevant thresholds for the percentages of prolymphocytes in the peripheral blood and their association to underlying genetic markers could be investigated together with other biologically and especially prognostic markers."
2813	"The combination of purine analogs with alkylating agents is able to produce a synergistic antitumoral effect. However, the addition of immunosuppressive and DNA-targeting agents might increase purine analog-related complications. The risk for serious complications was evaluated in 38 patients treated with 2-chloro-2'-deoxyadenosine (CDA) and cyclophosphamide (CP). The diagnoses were chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in 15, Waldenström's macroglobulinemia in 4, mantle cell lymphoma in 6, follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) in 10, and other low-grade NHL in 3 patients. All patients were pretreated (median: 2 lines, range: 1-5) and 23 (61%) were refractory. The patients received a median of two courses (range: 1-5) of 5.6 mg/m(2) CDA, followed by a median of 200 mg/m(2) CP,  for 3 days. The response rate was 51% [complete remission (CR): 14%, partial remission (PR): 38%]. Grade 3/4 infections occurred in 16 (42%) patients. Dose-limiting cytopenias were seen in 22 (58%) patients. In 12 (32%) patients, autoimmune manifestations developed requiring treatment in most of them. Second cancers arose in five (13%) patients (myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myelocytic leukemia in three, lung cancer in two). Multivariate analysis showed that cytopenias, gender (F), prior radiotherapy, and age (>65 years) predicted for the complications seen after CDA-CP. To conclude, because of the high incidence of complications, caution is warranted in selecting patients with advanced lymphoid  malignancies for the CDA-CP protocol."
2814	"Despite encouraging scientific and therapeutic advances, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) principally remains an incurable disease. Allogeneic transplantation represents the only curative approach, but is marked by high mortality. Novel and less toxic treatment modalities are needed. Immunotherapeutic approaches have clearly demonstrated potential effectiveness in CLL and other B-cell malignancies. To successfully direct immunity against CLL, highly immunogenic tumor cells or tumor-antigen-loaded antigen-presenting cells are necessary. The CD40-CD40L interaction has been shown to significantly increase antigen presentation in normal and malignant B-cells. Here we discuss biology and potential therapeutic applications of the CD40-system in CLL."
2815	"New therapies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are moving away from non-specific cytotoxic to more targeted approaches. The monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab induces responses in 33% to 43% of patients with relapsed or refractory disease, with 2-5% CR. Side effects include infusional reactions as well as immunosuppressive effects. Rituximab has limited activity in relapsed refractory patients, but response rates are comparable to follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in untreated patients. Other antibodies in early phases of development include anti-CD23 [IDEC-152], anti-CD22 [epratuzumab], Hu1D10 [apolizumab], and anti-CD80 [anti-B7, IDEC-114]. Other agents that are being studied include denileukin diftitox fusion protein (Ontak), and bcl-2 antisense [G3139, Genasense]. The mechanism of action of the new drugs and their role in CLL, as well as the emergence of new prognostic markers are discussed."
2816	"The P2X7 receptor, a plasma membrane ATP-gated ion channel that plays a role in lymphocyte apoptosis, has been suggested to be involved in the development of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). P2X7 is polymorphic with 1513A and 1513C alleles encoding fully active and nonfunctional proteins, respectively. We evaluated the significance of the P2X7-A1513C polymorphism on CLL risk by genotyping 424 patients and 428 healthy controls. To empower detection of an association, we included in our analysis 106 familial cases. Allele frequencies were identical in cases and controls irrespective of whether cases were familial  or sporadic (frequency of the C allele was 0.17 and 0.17, respectively). The odds ratio of CLL associated with the C allele was 1.03 (95% confidence interval: 0.80-1.31). A meta-analysis of this study and five other smaller published studies provides no evidence of relationship between this P2X7 polymorphism and risk of CLL (odds ratio = 0.99, 95% confidence interval: 0.74-1.32)."
2817	"OSI Pharmaceuticals is developing OSI-461, a potent analog of exisulind, for the  potential treatment of cancer and inflammatory bowel disease. In August 2001, OSI-461 entered phase II trials involving patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In July 2002, the company embarked on a pilot phase II study evaluating OSI-461 for the treatment of Crohn's disease. By October 2002, Cell Pathways had  selected hormone-refractory prostate cancer as the lead cancer indication for clinical development of OSI-461."
2818	"Second malignancies occur with increased frequency in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) regardless of treatment, but they may be more frequent and more aggressive after nucleoside analog therapy of CLL. In as many as 33% of  patients with CLL who develop a second malignancy, a spontaneous remission of CLL precedes the diagnosis of the second malignancy by months or years. Richter's syndrome, whether manifested by anaplastic large cell lymphoma or Hodgkin's disease, is not truly a second malignancy because the CLL clone appears to be involved. However, all other malignancies developing in patients with CLL appear  to be derived from a different clone. CLL and the second malignancy may have a common viral etiology. Second malignancies in patients with CLL should be treated as they would be in patients without CLL."
2819	"Changes in the genomic DNA methylation level have been found to be closely associated with tumorigenesis. In order to analyze the relation of aberrant DNA methylation to clinical and biological risk factors, we have determined the cytosine methylation level of 81 patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The analysis was based on DNA hydrolysis followed by derivatization of the 2'-desoxyribonucleoside-3'-monophosphates with BODIPY FL EDA. Derivatives were separated by micellar electrokinetic chromatography, and laser-induced fluorescence was used for detection. We analyzed potential correlations between DNA methylation levels and numerous patient parameters, including clinical observations and biological data. As a result, we observed a significant correlation with the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain gene (VH) mutation status. This factor has been repeatedly proposed as a reliable prognostic marker for CLL, which suggests that the methylation level might be a valuable factor in determining the prognostic outcome of CLL. We are now in the process of refining our method to broaden its application potential. In this context, we show here that the oxidation of the fluorescence marker in the samples and the evaporation of methanol in the electrolytes can be prevented by a film of paraffin oil. In summary, our results thus establish capillary electrophoresis as a valuable tool for analyzing the DNA methylation status of clinical samples."
2820	"OBJECTIVES: The aim of this longitudinal study was to determine the long-term quality of life (QoL) of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and to  investigate the relationship between QoL and sociodemographic and clinical parameters. METHODS: Ninety-seven patients suffering from CLL were asked to complete the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) four times over a period of 1 yr. Clinical data on  disease and treatment characteristics were collected from medical records. For the purpose of comparison, EORTC QLQ-C30 scores were collected from 152 age- and  gender-matched healthy controls. RESULTS: Seventy-six patients (age: median 68 yr, range 41-89) returned one or more questionnaires and were included in the statistical analysis. Compared with  healthy controls CLL patients reported a lower QoL in almost all domains. No differences regarding QoL could be observed between CLL patients who had already  received chemotherapy and those who had not. Moreover, female CLL patients were found to have remarkably lower QoL scores in the areas of emotional and social functioning than male patients. CONCLUSION: Patients suffering from CLL could have their QoL improved by more effective symptom management and psycho-oncological support. This could focus on  specific symptoms such as fatigue and might have particular benefits for female patients with respect to their emotional and social well-being."
2821	"OBJECTIVE: The slow accumulation of malignant cells in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) suggests a defect in the induction of apoptosis in these cells. Previous studies have found sporadic alterations in the apoptotic apparatus in CLL cells, but a widespread defect has not been detected until now. A crucial checkpoint in the progression of apoptosis is the activity of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAP) that control the activity of caspases upon the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of IAP in the regulation of apoptosis in CLL cells. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Lysates from CLL cells were prepared, and the regular function of components of the cytochrome c-dependent caspase-activating machinery (the apoptosome) was investigated. The effect of IAP in caspase-inhibition was tested using a peptide derived from the mitochondrial IAP antagonist Smac/DIABLO. Regulation of expression as well as inhibitory function of the X-linked IAP (XIAP) by cytokines was analyzed. RESULTS: The apoptosome was found to be structurally and functionally competent in CLL. XIAP expression was enhanced by culture in the presence of cytokines. Smac/DIABLO was easily detectable in CLL cells and was released into the cytosol  during apoptosis. No inhibitory effect of IAP was detected in CLL, irrespective of XIAP levels and culture conditions. CONCLUSION: Although XIAP is present in CLL cells and is up-regulated in conditions where apoptosis is prevented, no caspase-inhibiting anti-apoptotic effect of IAP is detectable. This is likely due to the high expression of Smac/DIABLO in CLL cells that is sufficient to overcome the caspase-inhibiting effect of IAP."
2822	"BACKGROUND: A paucity of coxsackie adenovirus receptor (CAR) hampers the adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5)-based vector-mediated gene transfer into malignant hematopoietic cells. Fiber-retargeted adenoviral vectors with species B tropism can potentially bypass the CAR requirement and facilitate efficient gene transfer into malignant hematopoietic cells. METHODS: For feasible generation of fiber-retargeted adenoviral vectors, we have  modified the versatile AdEasy system with a chimeric fiber gene encoding the Ad5  fiber tail domain and Ad35 fiber shaft and knob domains. An Ad5-based vector encoding the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene under the control of the PGK promoter with Ad35 fiber receptor specificity was generated (Ad5F35-GFP). The Ad5F35-GFP vector-mediated gene transfer efficiency was compared with a fiber non-modified Ad5-GFP vector, which also encodes the GFP gene under the control of the PGK promoter. RESULTS: We demonstrated that a variety of Ad5-refractory malignant myeloid and B lymphoid cell lines were highly permissive to the Ad5F35-GFP vector infection. Importantly, primary chronic myeloid leukemic (CML) cells and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) B cells were superiorly transduced by the Ad5F35-GFP vector at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 100 compared with the Ad5-GFP vector. CONCLUSIONS: Our study will facilitate the generation of fiber-retargeted adenoviral vectors and enable transient genetic manipulation of primary malignant hematopoietic cells."
2823	"In June 2000, we successfully performed an orthotopic cardiac transplant in a 52-year-old man who, together with a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Binet Stage A, Rai Stage 1), also had end-stage dilated idiopathic myocardiopathy. We describe his case and the 2 years of cancer-free follow-up. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a heart transplant in this setting."
2824	"Rituximab (RTX) is a monoclonal antibody which targets CD20 and is approved for treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), with an approximate 50% overall response rate among NHL patients. Accurate determination of RTX concentrations in patient plasmas is important for proper dosing of patients and for correlating RTX concentrations with clinical responses. There is currently no assay available for RTX which utilizes easily obtainable commercial reagents. Therefore, we sought to develop such an assay, and in this report we describe three new assays  for RTX concentration. One assay, based on flow cytometry, quantitates immunologically active RTX based on its ability to bind to CD20 on Raji cells. Two other methods, based on flow cytometry and ELISA, measure RTX based on its antigenic properties. The assays are accurate, in good agreement with one another, and can all measure RTX concentrations as low as approximately 1 microg/ml in both sera and plasmas. Use of these assays reveals that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients receiving RTX treatment have lower plasma RTX concentrations than patients with other B cell lymphomas at all times over the usual 4-week course of therapy. The level in CLL plasmas often declines to <1 microg/ml RTX 1 week after each RTX infusion, substantially lower than the values found in comparable non-CLL patient plasmas. RTX assay results also demonstrate that naïve CLL patient plasmas do not have levels of non-cell associated CD20 sufficient to either interfere with an in vitro assay of RTX or to block the potential therapeutic action of RTX in vivo."
2825	"The co-existence of spontaneously arising myeloid and lymphoid malignancies in the same patient is rare, and is thought to be mainly due to chance. We describe  a patient presenting simultaneously with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and myelodysplasia (MDS). Histological, flow cytometric, chromosomal and fluorescent  in situ hybridization (FISH) studies show that both cell populations possess different sets of markers consistent with the myeloid and lymphoid differentiation pathways. The question of whether these arose from a single or two separate progenitor cells is explored."
2826	"Isolated central nervous system involvement in Richter's syndrome (RS) is extremely rare and only 6 such cases have been described, so far. We report a 60-year-old woman with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) heavily pretreated with cladribine based regimens and rituximab in whom RS in the brain was first manifested as a stroke. Initial cranial computed tomography (CT) revealed a hypodense area in the right parietal lobe showing no contrast enhancement. The follow-up CT done after 2 months showed an irregular, slightly hyperdense tumor surrounded by oedema with mass effect and midline shift. However, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examinations revealed no pathological changes. Neurosurgical operation was performed and the diagnosis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) has been established on the basis of histological and immunological investigation of the tumor. The pattern of immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene rearrangement in the patients' bone marrow aspirate and brain tumor was identical and suggested that both tumors originated from the same B-cell progenitors. The patient was then treated with brain irradiation (2000 cGy) and complete remission as assessed by MRI was achieved. Significant neurological improvement was observed and no clinical progression was stated 3 months after radiotherapy."
2827	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a heterogenous disease with disturbed apoptosis in which the precise molecular defects leading to this pathogenesis are still unclear. The p73 gene (a p53 homologue) encodes 2 proteins with opposing functions. TAp73 induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, whilst the oncogenic deltaNp73 inhibits both TAp73 and p53 induced apoptosis. Microsatellite analysis  was performed to investigate the p73 gene locus in B-CLL. Moreover, we investigated the expression of the TAp73 and deltaNp73 variant by measuring the mRNA transcripts in 51 B-CLL patients by real-time RT-PCR. And in addition, protein expression was analyzed by Western blotting technique in 20 B-CLL patients. There was no evidence of clonal loss of heterozygosity at 1p36, the p73 gene locus in B-CLL patients. The real time RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression of both p73 gene variants was much higher in leukemic cells compared to controls. In 17/20 (85%) patients deltaNp73 and TAp73 protein were present. The observed increase of expression of the antiapoptotic deltaNp73 variant in neoplastic cells may lead to a functional p53 inactivation. This mechanism might  be relevant in malignancies with an intact p53 gene but disturbed apoptosis mechanisms such as in B-CLL."
2828	"Karyotypes were studied in over 250 cases of CLL seen at our Institution and 12 cases with a previously undescribed chromosome abnormality were identified. Cytogenetic and clinicobiological features in these patients are described. Fluorescence in situ hybridization using probes for the detection of +12 and deletions of 13q14, 17p13, and 11q22-23 was performed. Hematologic and clinical data were reviewed and a review of the literature was performed. Twelve patients  were found carrying the following aberrations in the stemline: abnormalities at 1p34 (n = 2), 4p16 (n = 2), 4q35 (n = 2), 9q11-32 (n = 4) and +7 (n = 2). Trisomy 12 was found in 3 cases, whereas no case carried 13q-, 11q-, 17p-. Our data showed that (i) aberrations involving 1p34 and 4p16 as isolated chromosome anomalies were preferentially associated with early stage disease; (ii) 4q35 anomalies were associated with a relatively aggressive disease, atypical morphology and with monoclonal gammopathy; (iii) rearrangements of 9q were characterized by atypical morphology and aggressive disease with splenic involvement; (iv) +7 be may associated with +12. 1p34-36; 4p16; 4q35; 9q and chromosome 7 represent novel recurrent rearranged sites in CLL, with a 0.5-3% incidence. Transformation in these patients seemingly occured through a cytogenetic route not involving the classical CLL-associated chromosome regions.  These chromosome rearrangements may be associated with peculiar hematologic features."
2829	"We have previously shown that quantification of CD38 expression using microbeads  of specific antibody binding capacity (ABC) improves the prognostic value of CD38 expression in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, particularly for Binet Stage A patients. Quantification of CD38 expression using beads is expensive, time consuming and could be difficult to implement in a routine clinical laboratory. The calculation of relative median fluorescence (RMF) using the median fluorescence intensities of the test and control samples, is even more simply and cheaply obtained by flow cytometry and could be used as an alternative way of quantifying antigen expression. The present study demonstrates that RMF is an effective prognostic indicator in B-CLL that correlates closely with ABC in predicting disease-specific survival and time to progression for all patients. RMF predicted overall survival and time to progression in all patients (P < 0.0001 for both), in Binet Stage A patients (P < 0.0001 for both) and in Stage A  patients under 60 years (P = 0.0299 and P = 0.0143, respectively). ABC predicted  overall survival and time to progression in all patients (P < 0.0001 for both) in Stage A patients (P = 0.0024 and P < 0.0001, respectively) and in Stage A patients under 60 (P = 0.0379 and P = 0.0032, respectively). RMF is more effective than percentage CD38 positivity > 30% or > 20% in predicting disease-specific survival in Stage A patients of all ages (CD38 < > 30%: P = 0.0853, CD38 < > 20%: P = 0.0894) and in those under 60 years old (CD38 < > 30%:  P = 0.5438, CD38 < > 20%: P = 0.2872). Also, RMF is more effective in predicting  time to progression of Binet Stage A patients less than 60 years (P = 0.0143), while percentage CD38 positivity of 30%, 20% or 7% did not achieve statistical significance (P = 0.1103, = 0.0547, = 0.3399, respectively). We suggest that CD38 RMF could be used clinically as an alternative to ABC to identify patients with B-CLL that are likely to progress and require early treatment."
2831	"Patients with CLL responding to initial chemotherapy with fludarabine alone (F) or in combination with cyclophosphamide (FC) were randomized for treatment with alemtuzumab (30 mg i.v. TIW, 12 weeks) or observation. Of 21 evaluable patients,  11 were randomized to alemtuzumab before the study was stopped due to severe infections in seven of 11 patients. These infections (one life-threatening pulmonary aspergillosis IV; four CMV reactivations III requiring i.v. ganciclovir; one pulmonary tuberculosis III; one herpes zoster III) were successfully treated and not associated with cumulative dose of alemtuzumab. In the observation arm, one herpes zoster infection II and one sinusitis I were documented. At 6 months after randomization, two patients in the alemtuzumab arm  converted to CR, while three patients in the observation arm progressed. After alemtuzumab treatment, five of six patients achieved a molecular remission in peripheral blood while all patients in the observation arm remained MRD-positive  (P=0.048). At 21.4 months median follow-up, patients receiving alemtuzumab showed a significant longer progression-free survival (no progression vs mean 24.7 months; P=0.036). In conclusion, a consolidation therapy with alemtuzumab is able to achieve molecular remissions and longer survival in CLL, but a safe treatment  regimen needs to be determined."
2833	"Studies of radiation-associated risks among workers chronically exposed to low doses of radiation are important, both to estimate risks directly and to assess the adequacy of extrapolations of risk estimates from high-dose studies. This paper presents results based on a cohort of 45,468 nuclear power industry workers from the Canadian National Dose Registry monitored for more than 1 year for chronic low-dose whole-body ionizing radiation exposures sometime between 1957 and 1994 (mean duration of monitoring = 7.4 years, mean cumulative equivalent dose = 13.5 mSv). The excess relative risks for leukemia [excluding chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)] and for all solid cancers were 52.5 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.205, 291] and 2.80 (95% CI: -0.038, 7.13) per sievert, respectively, both associations having P values close to 0.05. Relative risks by  dose categories increased monotonically for leukemia excluding CLL but were less  consistent for all solid cancers combined. Although the point estimates are higher than those found in other studies of whole-body irradiation, the difference could well be due to chance. Further follow-up of this cohort or the combination of results from multiple worker studies will produce more stable estimates and thus complement the risk estimates from higher-dose studies."
2835	"To our knowledge, the simultaneous involvement of the anterior mediastinum by a thymic carcinoma and a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia has not been reported previously. The authors describe the case of a 62-year-old man, suffering from severe bronchitis. Chest x-ray and CT scan showed a mediastinal tumour, resected  short-time after diagnosis. First, standard based histological examination revealed a thymic carcinoma admixed by a dense lymphatic infiltrate. Additional immunohistochemical staining for CD5-labelled epithelial thymic carcinoma cells as well as neoplastic B cells and led in combination with blood tests to confirm  the diagnosis of the composite occurrence of a thymic carcinoma and a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia."
2837	"Targeting aberrant DNA hypermethylation in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) with decitabine may reverse epigenetic silencing in B-cell malignancies. Twenty patients were enrolled in two phase I trials to determine the minimum effective pharmacological dose of decitabine in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL (n = 16) and NHL (n = 4). Patients received 1-3 cycles of decitabine. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was observed in 2 of 4 CLL and 2 of 2 NHL patients receiving decitabine at 15 mg/m(2) per d days 1-10, consisting of grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia and hyperbilirubinaemia. Six patients with CLL received decitabine at 10 mg/m(2) per d days 1-10 without DLT; however,  re-expression of methylated genes or changes in global DNA methylation were not observed. Therefore, a 5-day decitabine schedule was examined. With 15 mg/m(2) per d decitabine days 1-5, DLT occurred in 2 of 6 CLL and 2 of 2 NHL patients, consisting of grade 3-4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and febrile neutropenia. Eight patients had stable disease. In 17 patients, there were no significant changes in genome-wide methylation or in target gene re-expression. In conclusion, dose-limiting myelosuppression and infectious complications prevented dose escalation of decitabine to levels associated with changes in global methylation or gene re-expression in CLL and NHL."
2838	"The purpose of this phase 1-2 study was to investigate the association between the pharmacokinetic properties of ofatumumab, a human monoclonal CD20 antibody, and outcomes in 33 patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia receiving 4 weekly infusions of ofatumumab. The ofatumumab concentration profiles were fitted well by a two-compartment model with different elimination rate constant at first infusion compared to the remaining infusions in line with the observed rapid and sustained B-cell depletion. Exposure to ofatumumab was linked to clinical outcomes: high exposure was associated with higher probability of overall clinical response and longer progression-free survival. This association still remained statistically significant even when adjusting for relevant baseline covariates including tumour burden."
2843	"Bcl-2 family proteins have long been implicated in the pathology of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Indeed, a number of these proteins have been shown to have prognostic importance in this disease. The precise ways in which these proteins impact upon CLL and the ways in which they are regulated remain incompletely resolved. However, significant advances have been recently made in our understanding of how these proteins are controlled by genetic, epigenetic and microenvironmental cues. Furthermore, major progress has been made in trying to target these proteins therapeutically. Here we review the current knowledge about this family of apoptosis-regulating proteins and how they impact upon drug resistance and disease progression. We also summarise evolution in the development of Bcl-2 family inhibitors for the treatment of CLL and other cancers."
2844	"AIM: To investigate the usefulness of some clinical and laboratory parameters in  assessing the prognosis and survival of CLL in a resource-limited setting. METHODS: Between September 1986 and March 2007, 79 consecutive patients were retrospectively studied. Diagnosis was based on clinical and haematological findings. RESULTS: A total of 79 patients, aged 30 to 81 (median = 60) years were managed.  There were 34 males and 45 females (ratio = 0.8:1). About 86.1% were aged above 50 years. Massive splenomegaly and hepatomegaly were recorded in 70.9% and 29.1%  of patients, respectively. More than 63% presented in stage C. Anaemia was recorded in 74.7%. Haematocrit correlated negatively with WBC but positively with platelet count. The spleen correlated positively with liver. The overall survival at 2 years was 70.2%. Logistic regression showed that younger age, male sex, higher haematocrit, and lower platelet count improved survival, while lower WBC,  moderate hepatomegaly and splenomegaly conferred survival advantage. CONCLUSION: It could be concluded that massive splenomegaly is a common finding in the majority of our patients. Non availability of immunophenotyping facility is a major constraint."
2847	"Richter's syndrome (RS) represents the transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) to aggressive lymphoma and is mostly represented by diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), with a post-germinal centre (GC) phenotype, clonally related to the pre-existing CLL. RS has a very poor prognosis and its pathogenetic mechanisms are poorly understood. In order to gain additional hints  in RS pathogenesis, we performed a genome-wide DNA profiling study of 13 RS phases and eight matched CLL phases using the Affymetrix Human Mapping 250K NspI  SNP arrays. Individual genomic profiles were heterogeneous, with no individual lesions occurring in more than half of the cases. However, several observations suggest that MYC pathway might be involved in RS. The 13q13.3-qter region containing MIRHG1 (MIR-17-92), a cluster of microRNA interacting with c-MYC, was  acquired at the time of transformation. The 13q gain was coupled with the gain of c-MYC and loss of TP53. Translocation of c-MYC was acquired at transformation in  a fraction of cases and this event appeared mutually exclusive with gain of MIRHG1. MYCN, a c-MYC homologue, was also recurrently gained. By comparing RS with 48 de novo DLBCL, RS presented a significantly lower prevalence of deletions affecting the PRDM1 and TNFAIP3, genes on 6q, known to be associated with a post-GC phenotype. In conclusion, the genomic profile of RS seems to differ from  what observed in de novo DLBCL and in other transformed DLBCL. Genomic lesions occurring in RS are heterogeneous suggesting the existence of different RS subsets, possibly due to different transforming mechanisms. A deregulation of MYC pathway might represent one of the main transformation events in the pathogenesis of a subset of RS clonally related to the previous CLL."
2849	"Ofatumumab is a fully human anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that induces antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity and complement-dependent cytotoxicity in CD20-expressing B lymphocytes. Ofatumumab is highly potent in lysing B cells, and this appears to stem from its binding site on the short extracellular loop of the target CD20 protein and its slow release from the target molecule. In a pivotal, noncomparative study in patients with fludarabine- and alemtuzumab-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), ofatumumab induced objective responses in 58% (99% CI 40, 74) of patients, which met a prespecified superiority criterion. The median duration of response was 7.1 months. The median progression-free survival was 5.7 months and the median overall survival was 13.7 months. In patients with fludarabine- and alemtuzumab-refractory CLL, infections and neutropenia were the most frequent treatment-related adverse events (all grades) that occurred during ofatumumab treatment; infections that commenced during treatment led to death in five patients (8%)."
2850	"Telomerase and the control of telomere length are intimately linked to the process of tumourigenesis in humans. Here I review the evidence that variation at the 5p15.33 locus, which contains the TERT gene (encoding the catalytic subunit of telomerase), might play a role in the determination of cancer risk. Mutations  in the coding regions of TERT can affect telomerase activity and telomere length, and create severe clinical phenotypes, including bone marrow failure syndromes and a substantive increase in cancer frequency. Variants within the TERT gene have been associated with increased risk of haematological malignancies, including myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukaemia as well as chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Furthermore, there is good evidence from a number of independent genome-wide association studies to implicate variants at the 5p15.33  locus in cancer risk at several different sites: lung cancer, basal cell carcinoma and pancreatic cancer show strong associations, while bladder, prostate and cervical cancer and glioma also show risk alleles in this region. Thus, multiple independent lines of evidence have implicated variation in the TERT gene as a risk factor for cancer. The mechanistic basis of these risk variants is yet  to be established; however, the basic biology suggests that telomere length control is a tantalising candidate mechanism underlying cancer risk."
2851	"BACKGROUND: Given that treatments for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) are palliative rather than curative, evaluating the patient-perceived impacts of therapy is critical. To date, no utility (preference) studies from the general public or patient perspective have been conducted in CLL. The objective of this study was to measure preferences for health states associated with CLL treatment. METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study of 89 members of the general population in the UK (England and Scotland). Using standard gamble, each participant valued  four health states describing response status, six describing treatment-related toxicities based on Common Toxicity Criteria, and two describing line of treatment. The health states incorporated standardized descriptions of treatment  response (symptoms have "improved," "stabilized," or "gotten worse"), swollen glands, impact on daily activities, fatigue, appetite, and night sweats. Utility  estimates ranged from 0.0, reflecting dead, to 1.0, reflecting full health. RESULTS: Complete response (CR) was the most preferred health state (mean utility, 0.91), followed by partial response (PR), 0.84; no change (NC), 0.78; and progressive disease (PD), 0.68. Among the toxicity states, grade I/II nausea  and nausea/vomiting had the smallest utility decrements (both were -0.05), and grade III/IV pneumonia had the greatest decrement (-0.20). The utility decrements obtained for toxicity states can be subtracted from utilities for CR, PR, NC, and PD, as appropriate. The utilities for second- and third-line treatments, which are attempted when symptoms worsen, were 0.71 and 0.65, respectively. No significant differences in utilities were observed by age, sex, or knowledge/experience with leukaemia. CONCLUSIONS: This study reports UK population utilities for a universal set of CLL health states that incorporate intended treatment response and unintended toxicities. These utilities can be applied in future cost-effectiveness analyses  of CLL treatment."
2853	"Chemokines are centrally involved in leukocyte migration, homing and haematopoiesis. Besides these physiological aspects, their role in pathological processes especially with respect to solid tumour and haematological neoplasias is well established. In this context, the focus was set here on disclosing their  contribution in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), which is regarded as the most characteristic low-grade lymphoma. Up to now, it has been demonstrated that several chemokines are involved in migration of B-CLL cells to  lymph nodes, secondary lymphoid organs and bone marrow. Moreover, some chemokines are known to have an anti-apoptotic effect and thus contribute to the survival of B-CLL cells. By interfering with both of these aspects, new therapeutic targets for this yet incurable disease may be developed. Furthermore, a correlation can be drawn between the concentration of some chemokines in patients' serum, the expression of their respective receptors on B-CLL cells and well-established predictive clinical parameters. Consequently, further systematic investigation of the chemokine network may lead to the identification of new diagnostic and prognostic markers. This review focuses on the impact of chemokines and their receptors on B-CLL pathophysiology and points out potential implications for both treatment and diagnosis."
2855	"Second primary malignancies have long been associated with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We assessed secondary tumour samples from CLL and control patients for the presence of human papilloma virus (HPV). 132 CLL patients with 44 second malignancies were compared to a matched randomly-identified control population of 264 non-CLL patients with 54 solid malignancies. Polymerase chain reaction was performed with the highly conserved MY09/MY11 HPV primer. None of control samples were HPV-positive, while 53% of samples from the CLL group were positive. This report describes preliminary evidence for the presence of HPV in secondary malignancies, in patients with CLL."
2856	"A recent genome-wide association study of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) has identified a susceptibility locus on 6p25.3 associated with a modest but highly significant increase in CLL risk. Using a set of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers, we generated a fine-scale map and narrowed the association signal  to a 18 kb DNA segment within the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of the IRF4 (interferon regulatory factor 4) gene. Resequencing this segment in European subjects identified 55 common polymorphisms, including 13 highly correlated candidate causal variants. In a large case-control study, it was shown that all but four variants could be excluded with 95% confidence. These four SNPs map to a 3 kb region of the 3'-UTR of IRF4, consistent with the causal basis of the association being mediated through differential IRF4 expression."
2857	"BACKGROUND: Several studies have suggested an association between occupational exposure to solvents and lymphoma risk. However, findings are inconsistent and the role of specific chemicals is not known. Objective To investigate the role of occupational exposure to organic solvents in the aetiology of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) and its major subtypes, as well as Hodgkin's lymphoma and T-cell lymphoma. METHODS: 2348 lymphoma cases and 2462 controls participated in a case-control study in six European countries. A subset of cases were reviewed by a panel of pathologists to ensure diagnostic consistency. Exposure to solvents was assessed  by industrial hygienists and occupational experts based on a detailed occupational questionnaire. RESULTS: Risk of follicular lymphoma significantly increased with three independent metrics of exposure to benzene, toluene and xylene (BTX) (combined p=4 x 10(-7)) and to styrene (p=1 x 10(-5)), and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) risk increased with exposure to solvents overall (p=4 x 10(-6)), BTX (p=5 x 10(-5)), gasoline (p=8 x 10(-5)) and other solvents (p=2 x 10(-6)). Risk of B-NHL for ever exposure to solvents was not elevated (OR=1.1, 95% CI 1.0 to 1.3), and that for CLL and follicular lymphoma was 1.3 (95% CI 1.1 to 1.6) and 1.3 (95% CI  1.0 to 1.7), respectively. Exposure to benzene accounted, at least partially, for the association observed with CLL risk. Hodgkin's lymphoma and T-cell lymphoma did not show an association with solvent exposure. CONCLUSION: This analysis of a large European dataset confirms a role of occupational exposure to solvents in the aetiology of B-NHL, and particularly, CLL. It is suggested that benzene is most likely to be implicated, but we cannot  exclude the possibility of a role for other solvents in relation to other lymphoma subtypes, such as follicular lymphoma. No association with risk of T-cell lymphoma and Hodgkin's lymphoma was shown."
2860	"AIMS: To investigate the relationship between Bcl-2 protein expression and cell proliferation at single-cell level in B-cell lymphomas using double-labelling techniques. METHODS AND RESULTS: The relationship between Bcl-2 protein expression and cell proliferation was explored in 124 cases of B-cell lymphoma using double immunofluorescence labelling for Bcl-2 and Ki67. In follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma and a subset of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), neoplastic cells tended to lose Bcl-2 when they are in cell cycle. This pattern is usually maintained in both follicular lymphoma and CLL/SLL when they undergo high-grade transformation. In mantle cell lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a subset of CLL/SLL, the inverse relationship (between  Bcl-2 and Ki67) was not observed, i.e. the proliferating cells tended to show co-expression of Bcl-2. CONCLUSIONS: In low-grade lymphomas, including those that are transformed, Bcl-2  expression is lost when cell proliferate. However, in more aggressive tumours (i.e. mantle cell and de novo diffuse large B-cell lymphomas) the inverse Bcl-2/Ki67 relationship was not observed. It would be of interest to explore the  clinical implications in lymphoma of the presence and absence of the inverse Bcl-2/Ki67 pattern."
2863	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a heterogeneous disease exhibiting variable clinical course and survival rates. Mutational status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions (IGHVs) of CLL cells offers useful prognostic information for high-risk patients, but time and economical costs originally prevented it from being routinely used in a clinical setting. Instead, alternative markers of IGHV status, such as zeta-associated protein (ZAP70) or messenger RNA levels are often used. We report a (1)H-NMR-based metabolomics approach to examine serum metabolic profiles of early stage, untreated CLL patients (Binet stage A) classified on the basis of IGHV mutational status or ZAP70. Metabolic profiles of CLL patients (n=29) exhibited higher concentrations  of pyruvate and glutamate and decreased concentrations of isoleucine compared with controls (n=9). Differences in metabolic profiles between unmutated (UM-IGHV; n=10) and mutated IGHV (M-IGHV; n=19) patients were determined using partial least square discriminatory analysis (PLS-DA; R(2)=0.74, Q(2)=0.36). The  UM-IGHV patients had elevated levels of cholesterol, lactate, uridine and fumarate, and decreased levels of pyridoxine, glycerol, 3-hydroxybutyrate and methionine concentrations. The PLS-DA models derived from ZAP70 classifications showed comparatively poor goodness-of-fit values, suggesting that IGHV mutational status correlates better with disease-related metabolic profiles. Our results highlight the usefulness of (1)H-NMR-based metabolomics as a potential non-invasive prognostic tool for identifying CLL disease-state biomarkers."
2864	"Substantial geographical differences exist for Hodgkin and other lymphoproliferative disorders with these having previously been documented in a report from the lymphoma reclassification project. In the light of rampant human  immunodeficiency syndrome, largely centred in sub-Sahara, this experience is updated in a further 512 consecutive individuals treated over an 8-year period in a privately based academic centre. Median age was 55.2 years 61% were males, 10%  had Hodgkin lymphoma and, overall, constitutional symptoms were present in 20%. Prior to referral 19% had received chemotherapy and a further 20% some form of irradiation. Median survival in hairy cell leukaemia (n=14), chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia-small lymphocytic lymphoma (n=103), Hodgkin (n=41) and follicular lymphoma (n=59) was not reached at the time of analysis and exceeded 36 months. This was followed by 32 months for those with mantle cell (n=7), splenic (n=2) and extranodal marginal cell (n=11), 24 months for T-cell lymphomas (n=24), 20 months for diffuse large B-cell variants (n=88) but only 12 months for the aggressive tumours exemplified by Burkitt (n=7) and lymphoblastic subtypes (n=6). The remaining 36 patients had to be excluded because numbers were too small for statistical analysis or unreliable staging. Adverse factors were constitutional symptoms, prior treatment with chemotherapy, intermediate or high-risk scores as  defined by the international prognostic index, histologic grading and certain anatomical sites of primary tumour. In contrast gender, staging by Rye or Rai classification, retroviral infection and prior treatment with radiotherapy were without effect. Overall survival at 3 years in each category was compared to the  curve for the entire cohort and was 100% in hairy cell leukaemia receiving two chlorodeoxyadenosine and greater than 88% in Hodgkin lymphoma treated according to the German study group protocols (p=0.0004). Corresponding figures for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia-small lymphocytic lymphoma were 82% (p=0.0006), follicular  lymphoma 71% (p=0.060), peripheral T-cell lymphoma 43% (p=0.0156), diffuse large  B-cell lymphoma 39% (p<0.0001), aggressive tumours 25% (p=0.0002) and for the indolent categories including mantle cell, splenic and extra nodal marginal cell  lymphomas 22% (p=0.2023). Outcome argues in favour of patient management by a multidisciplinary team implicit in which are standardised protocols for diagnosis, staging and treatment. Under these circumstances the well recognized centre effect applies when results approximate those from first world reference centres. Conversely any deviation from such a disciplined approach is unlikely to achieve comparable benefit and therefore to be strongly discouraged."
2866	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is characterised by the dependence on the overexpression of anti-apoptotic proteins to maintain their survival. Based on this biological context, a strategy for CLL therapy was proposed using inhibitors of transcription and translation to transiently reduce the short-lived survival proteins and induce cell death. This includes inhibitors of the cyclin-dependent  kinases required for the activation of RNA polymerase II, as well as homoharringtonine and silvestrol, the natural compounds that inhibit translation. As their actions are independent of p53 or ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) function, agents that act by such mechanisms are promising to overcome resistance to current CLL therapy. Further, the combination of inhibitors of transcription and translation, together with other approaches that interfere with the function  of anti-apoptotic proteins, may initiate synergistic killing in CLL."
2867	"Infectious complications continue to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality  in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The pathogenesis of infections in these patients is multifactorial, related to inherent immune defects and therapy-related immunosuppression. Hypogammaglobulinaemia is an important predisposing factor for infection in all patients. The use of the purine analogues such as fludarabine, and monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab and alemtuzumab, has introduced a new spectrum of infectious complications caused by pathogens such as Pneumocystis, Listeria, mycobacteria, herpesviruses Candida  and Aspergillus, related to the cellular immune suppression induced by these agents. This review focuses on the pathogenesis and risk factors for infections in patients with CLL, the spectrum of infectious complications and preventive approaches to infection in these patients, using antimicrobial and immunoglobulin prophylaxis and vaccination strategies."
2868	"The availability of safe and effective monoclonal antibodies has revolutionised the treatment strategies for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Alemtuzumab, the first antibody approved for these patients, induces responses in one-third of relapsed and refractory patients, and in more than 80% when used as  initial therapy. Rituximab, while exhibiting modest single-agent activity, improves the response rate when added to standard chemotherapy and may even prolong patient survival. The most recent antibody to be approved by regulatory agencies is ofatumumab, a new anti-CD20 antibody, with efficacy in patients whose disease is refractory to both fludarabine and alemtuzumab. Other antibodies or related molecules in development are directed at antigens, such as CD20, CD23 and CD37. Through rational combinations with chemotherapy and other biologic agents,  the outcome for patients with CLL will further improve."
2869	"The nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB) signalling pathway is constitutively active in a variety of cancers, including chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The importance of this signalling pathway identifies it as a prime therapeutic target; however, the complexity and potential side effects of inhibiting NF-kappaB have thus far made the clinical use of NF-kappaB inhibitors a relatively unexplored resource in this disease. This article discusses the role of NF-kappaB in CLL as a common crossroad for pathways promoting drug resistance in CLL. We provide the background on how this  pathway contributes to both spontaneous and drug-induced apoptosis. Potential new avenues to regulate this pathway in CLL are also discussed."
2870	"There is no clear consensus regarding the optimal management of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Many patients are diagnosed at an advanced age and will die with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, but of other unrelated causes. A significant minority are diagnosed at an earlier age, or with more aggressive disease, and despite chemotherapy, are likely to die of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. The infusion of autologous or allogeneic haemopoietic stem cells, following a variety of conditioning regimes, offers the possibility of longer remissions or even cure. We explore the key questions facing clinicians in this field: Who is it best to transplant? When is it best to transplant? How is it best to transplant?"
2871	"Among chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients who require therapy, their response to therapy is the most important prognostic factor, with a better response predicting longer progression-free and overall survival. In this context, patients who achieve minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative status have better prognosis than those with inferior response to therapy, including those with MRD-positive complete response (CR). MRD can be assessed by either allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or four-colour cytofluorometry. Importantly, methods to determine MRD in CLL have been standardised. Nevertheless, MRD status should not be used as a goal of therapy outside clinical studies. This is because the issue of the benefits of achieving MRD-negative status in patients with CLL requires further investigation in large controlled trials, in which patients should be stratified according to not only clinical variables but also biological parameters such as cytogenetics, IGHV mutations or  ZAP-70 expression."
2872	"Rapid progress has been achieved recently in the management of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). New insights into the molecular pathology of CLL have generated a plethora of biological markers that predict the prognosis and influence therapeutic decisions. Moreover, fludarabine, bendamustine and two monoclonal antibodies, alemtuzumab and rituximab, have been approved by European  and/or American regulatory agencies. Additional monoclonal antibodies targeting CD20, CD23, CD37, CD38 or CD40, as well as drugs designed to interfere with proteins regulating the cell cycle, apoptotic machinery or leukaemic microenvironment (e.g., flavopiridol, oblimersen, ABT-263 or lenalidomide) are investigated in clinical trials. An increased experience with reduced-intensity allogeneic progenitor cell transplantation allows offering this option to physically fit patients. This review attempts to summarise the current use of these different modalities in CLL therapy."
2873	"Many prognostic factors have been identified in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Based on the assessment of B cell receptor (BCR) structure and function, a subdivision into subtypes is possible (e.g., immunoglobulin heavy chain variable  gene segment (IGHV) unmutated and mutated, V3-21 usage) with distinct biological  and clinical characteristics. Recurrent genomic aberrations (i.e., 11q and 17p deletion) and gene mutations (i.e., TP53 and ATM) help to define biological and clinical subgroups. In addition, serum markers (e.g., thymidine kinase (TK) and beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG)), cellular markers (e.g., CD38 and ZAP70) and clinical staging have an impact on outcome in CLL. The biological characterisation of CLL has not only led to progress in outcome prediction but also has begun to be translated into novel treatment strategies. Nonetheless, most factors associated with prognosis have not been thoroughly interrogated for  their predictive value in the light of different therapeutic approaches. With a growing number of agents acting on specific biological targets and being used in  different clinical situations, the future is likely to bring the identification of predictive factors in CLL."
2874	"Monoclonal B-lymphocytosis (MBL) is defined as the presence of a population of monoclonal B-cells, usually with a chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) phenotype, which comprise fewer than 5000 cells per microl with no evidence of tissue involvement. Over the past few years, MBL has been clearly defined and differentiated from CLL so that individuals with MBL are no longer inappropriately labelled as suffering from leukaemia. In this review, we will describe the entity of MBL and summarise the evidence that underlies the current  theory on the pathophysiology of the disorder, the relationship with CLL and the  probability of developing progressive disease requiring treatment. In addition, we will evaluate the importance of further clinical investigations, in particular, the relevance of screening for MBL and undertaking bone marrow investigations according to the clinical setting and B-cell phenotype."
2875	"Patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia /small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL) have a 5-10% risk of developing autoimmune complications, which primarily cause cytopaenia. These autoimmune cytopaenias can occur at any stage of CLL and do not have independent prognostic significance. The most common autoimmune complication is autoimmune haemolytic anaemia with a lower frequency of immune thrombocytopaenia and pure red blood cell aplasia and only rarely, autoimmune granulocytopaenia (AIG). Autoimmune cytopaenia should always be considered in the differential diagnosis of cytopaenia in patients with CLL. Patients with CLL can  also have more than one form of autoimmune cytopaenia, which can occur together with bone-marrow failure. Treatment is usually effective but rarely curative for  autoimmune cytopaenia complicating CLL. Optimal therapy will depend on a timely and accurate diagnosis of autoimmune cytopaenia and should be individualised according to the severity of the cytopaenia and the presence or absence of concomitant progressive CLL requiring therapy."
2876	"B cell-type chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) has long been considered a disease of resting lymphocytes. However, cell surface and intracellular phenotypes suggest that most CLL cells are activated cells, although only a small subset progresses beyond the G1 stage of the cell cycle. In addition, traditional teaching says that CLL cells divide rarely, and therefore the build-up of leukaemic cells is due to an inherent defect in cell death. However, in vivo labelling of CLL cells indicates a much more active rate of cell birth than originally estimated, suggesting that CLL is a dynamic disease. Here we review the observations that have led to these altered views of the activation state and proliferative capacities of CLL cells and also provide our interpretation of these observations in light of their potential impact on patients."
2877	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is characterised by accumulation of CD5(+) monoclonal B cells in primary and secondary lymphoid tissues. Genetic defects and stimuli originating from the microenvironment concur to the selection and expansion of the malignant clone. Several lines of evidence, including molecular  and functional analysis of the monoclonal immunoglobulin, support the hypothesis  that stimulation through the B-cell receptor affects life and death of leukaemic  cells. The microenvironment also has a critical role in the survival and accumulation of leukaemic cells within lymphoid organs where signals delivered from the surrounding cells are likely crucial in inducing proliferation. Nevertheless, several major biological issues still remain to be solved including regulation of the balance between proliferation and survival of leukaemic cells and the links between emerging gene abnormalities and microenvironment. In this context, mouse models are helpful tools in understanding disease mechanisms and in evaluating the efficacy of novel therapeutic agents."
2878	"The diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is based on clinical and laboratory features. Morphology and immunophenotype are the initial diagnostic investigations. In atypical cases, these tests should be complemented with molecular genetics and/or histology to exclude other B-cell disorders of small lymphocytes. Morphologically, CLL can be classified into typical and atypical. Immunophenotyping is the only method that can establish or confirm the diagnosis  as CLL lymphocytes have a distinct immunophenotypic signature. A scoring system compounding the results with a set of markers allows firming up the diagnosis. Other immunological markers such as CD38 and ZAP-70 have an important prognostic  impact. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis, chiefly by detecting  17p (TP53 locus) and 11q (ATM) deletions and mutational status of the IgVH gene,  also provides prognostic information and may determine the type of therapy. In atypical CLL, histology and/or molecular genetics may be required to exclude other B-cell disorders."
2879	"Interphase cytogenetics are commonly used to identify clonal abnormalities in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients but fail to identify recurrent translocations that ultimately can direct more focused molecular characterization. Given the importance of del(17p13.1) in CLL outcome, we performed an extensive review of 1213 patients undergoing metaphase cytogenetics  at our institution and identified 16 (1.3%) with a recurrent unbalanced translocation between the p arms of chromosomes 17 and 18 that results in a dicentric chromosome with loss of much of 17p and 18p. The dic(17;18)(p11.2;p11.2) was associated with a complex (three or more unrelated cytogenetic abnormalities) karyotype in 12 patients (75%) at the time that the abnormality was first identified, and eventually associated with a complex karyotype in 94% of patients. IGHV mutational analysis was un-mutated in 88% of cases where evaluation was possible. Except for one patient who was diagnosed with CLL incidentally during a workup for metastatic tonsillar cancer, all patients identified with dic(17;18)(p11.2;p11.2) met criteria for disease treatment, with a median time from diagnosis to first treatment of 15 months. Our data demonstrate that dic(17;18)(p11.2;p11.2) is a novel recurrent cytogenetic abnormality in CLL associated with early age at diagnosis and accelerated disease progression. Future efforts to identify genes disrupted by this translocation are warranted and ongoing."
2880	"One characteristic of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) lymphocytes is high expression of CD23, which has previously been identified as a downstream target for NOTCH2 signalling. The mechanisms regulating NOTCH2-dependent CD23 expression, however, are largely unknown. This study showed that peripheral CLL cells overexpressed transcriptionally active NOTCH2 (N2(IC)), irrespective of their prognostic marker profile. When placed in culture, NOTCH2 activity was spontaneously decreased in 25 out of 31 CLL cases (81%) within 24 h. DNA-bound N2(IC) complexes could be maintained by the protein kinase C (PKC) activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) or by gamma-interferon (IFN-gamma), two CLL characteristic inducers of CD23 expression. Inhibition of PKC-delta by RNA interference or by rottlerin antagonised PMA-induced NOTCH2 activation and also suppressed NOTCH2 activity in CLL cases with constitutively activated NOTCH2 signalling. In 23 out of 29 CLL cases tested (79%), DNA-bound N2(IC) complexes were found to be resistant to the gamma-secretase inhibitor (GSI) DAPT, suggesting that GSIs will be only effective in a subset of CLL cases. These data  suggest that deregulation of NOTCH2 signalling is critically involved in maintaining the malignant phenotype of CLL lymphocytes and point to a link between PKC-delta and NOTCH2 signalling in the leukemic cells."
2882	"Impaired apoptosis is still considered to be an important event in the development and progression of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). However, mechanisms of this defect have not been fully elucidated. In this study, expression of inhibitor of apoptosis proteins, IAPs (cIAP1, cIAP2, XIAP and survivin), and their antagonists (Smac/DIABLO and HtrA2/Omi) was comprehensively  analysed in 100 untreated CLL patients, using flow cytometry and Western blot techniques. Expression of anti-apoptotic cIAP1 and cIAP2 in leukaemic cells was significantly higher than in non-tumour lymphocytes (p=0.000001 and p=0.014, respectively), whereas the IAP-antagonist, Smac/DIABLO, was decreased in CLL (p=0.010). Higher expression of all analysed IAPs (cIAP1, p=0.002; cIAP2, p=0.026; XIAP, p=0.002; survivin, p=0.00006) and lower levels of Smac/DIABLO (p=0.006) were found in patients with progressive disease, compared to those with stable CLL. High baseline expression of cIAP1 and survivin correlated with worse  response to treatment. Co-expression of these proteins was associated with shorter overall survival of CLL patients (p=0.005). In conclusion, CLL cells show the apoptosis-resistant profile of IAPs/IAP-antagonist expression. Upregulation of IAPs is associated with a progressive course of the disease. Co-expression of  cIAP1 and survivin seems to be an unfavourable prognostic factor in CLL patients. Further studies with longer follow up are warranted to confirm and expand these findings."
2883	"Adult and juvenile forms of cutaneous xanthogranuloma share many clinical and histopathological features. Unlike the juvenile variant, systemic disorders including haematological malignancies have only rarely been reported in association with adult xanthogranuloma. We report a case of multiple periocular xanthogranulomas arising in a 43 year old man with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. This case supports the emerging hypothesis that both juvenile and adult xanthogranulomas may share an association with an underlying haematological malignancy. Also highlighted is the fact that some patients with periocular cutaneous xanthogranulomas of adult onset can have co-existing orbital xanthogranulomatous disease and appropriate clinical and radiological investigations may be needed for accurate diagnosis."
2884	"p53 gene mutations are rarely detected at diagnosis in common haematological cancers such as multiple myeloma (MM), acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and Hodgkin's disease (HD), although their prevalence may increase with progression to more aggressive or advanced stages. Therapeutic  induction of p53 might therefore be particularly suitable for the treatment of haematological malignancies. Some of the anti-tumour activity of current chemotherapeutics has been derived from activation of p53. However, until recently it was unknown whether p53 signalling is functional in certain haematological cancers including MM and if p53 activity is sufficient to trigger  an apoptotic response. With the recent discovery of nutlins, which represent the  first highly selective small molecule inhibitors of the p53-MDM2 interaction, pharmacological tools are now available to induce p53 irrespective of upstream signalling defects, and to functionally analyse the downstream p53 pathway in primary leukaemia and lymphoma cells. Combination therapy is emerging as a key factor, and development of non-genotoxic combinations seems very promising for tackling the problems of toxicity and resistance. This review will highlight recent findings in the research into molecules capable of modulating p53 protein  activities and mechanisms that activate the p53 pathway, restoring response to therapy in haematological malignancies."
2885	"The diagnosis of splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL) is frequently a challenge, due to its lack of specific histological features and immunophenotypic markers, and the existence of other poorly characterized splenic lymphomas defying classification. Moreover, the clinical outcome of SMZL is variable, with 30% of cases pursuing an aggressive clinical course, the prediction of which remains problematic. Thus, there is a real need for biomarkers in the diagnosis and prognostication of SMZL. To search for genetic markers, we comprehensively investigated the genomic profile, TP53 abnormalities, and immunoglobulin heavy gene (IGH) mutation in a large cohort of SMZLs. 1 Mb resolution array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) on 25 SMZLs identified 7q32 deletion (44%) as the most frequent copy number change, followed by gains of 3q (32%), 8q (20%), 9q34 (20%), 12q23-24 (8%), and chromosome 18 (12%), and losses of 6q (16%), 8p (12%),  and 17p (8%). High-resolution chromosome 7 tile-path aCGH on 17 SMZLs with 7q32 deletion identified by 1 Mb aCGH or interphase FISH screening mapped the minimal  common deletion to a 3 Mb region at 7q32.1-32.2. Although it is not yet possible  to identify the genes targeted by the deletion, interphase FISH screening showed  that the deletion was seen in SMZL (19/56 = 34%) and splenic B-cell lymphoma/leukaemia unclassifiable (3/9 = 33%), but not in 39 cases of other splenic lymphomas including chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (n = 14), hairy cell leukaemia (4), mantle cell lymphoma (12), follicular lymphoma (6), and others. In SMZL, 7q32 deletion was inversely correlated with trisomy 18, but not associated  with other copy number changes, TP53 abnormalities, or IGH mutation status. None  of the genetic parameters examined showed significant and independent association with overall or event-free survival. In conclusion, 7q32 deletion is a characteristic feature of SMZL, albeit seen in isolated cases of splenic B-cell lymphoma/leukaemia unclassifiable, and its detection may help the differential diagnosis of splenic B-cell lymphomas."
2886	"The recent and rapid development of molecularly targeted therapy is best illustrated by advances in the management of haematological malignancy. In myeloid diseases we have seen dramatic improvements in the overall survival and quality of life for patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia treated with ABL and  Src/ABL kinase inhibitors and we are poised to discover whether JAK2 inhibitors may offer similar benefit in myeloproliferative diseases. For acute myeloid leukaemia, the introduction of ATRA and myelotarg have had major impacts on the design of therapy regimens and many novel targeted agents, including farnesyl transferase, FLT3 and histone deacetylase inhibitors, are now in clinical trial.  In lymphoid malignancies the highlight has been the introduction of rituximab, with significant improvements in the management of non-Hodgkin lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. The last 10 years has experienced a rapidly expanding interest and acceptance that leukaemic stem cells, including an improved ability to target them, may hold the key to improved response and reduced relapse rates across both myeloid and lymphoid disease. We now eagerly anticipate an era in which a wealth of preclinical discoveries are progressed to  the clinic."
2887	"Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that is widely utilized in the treatment of a  number of B-cell-derived haematological malignancies. Rituximab, in combination with chemotherapy, has significantly improved survival outcomes for patients diagnosed with follicular lymphoma (FL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the two most commonly diagnosed subtypes of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Furthermore, chemoimmunotherapy containing rituximab has led to significant increases in complete response and progression-free survival rates for patients with both previously untreated and relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). This article reviews the efficacy data from clinical trials demonstrating the significant survival benefits associated with rituximab use in  the treatment of FL, DLBCL and CLL."
2888	"BACKGROUND: Fludarabine-based chemoimmunotherapy has well-recognised efficacy and short-term toxicity in the treatment of lymphoid malignancies. However, the presence and significance of prolonged cytopenias after completion of treatment have not been thoroughly quantified. METHODS: Sixty-one patients receiving initial therapy with fludarabine-based regimens were categorised according to the presence of post-treatment cytopenias  (haemoglobin <110-130 g/l depending on sex and age, neutrophils <2.0 x 10(9)/l, or platelets <140 x 10(9)/l) lasting >3 months. RESULTS: Persistent cytopenias unrelated to persistent disease were found in 43%  of patients. Cytopenias were associated with clinically important rates of infection and transfusion requirement (P = 0.03) and predicted for worse overall  survival (61% versus 96% at 60 months, P = 0.05). Increasing age predicted for persistent cytopenias (P = 0.02), but the presence of pretreatment cytopenias and delivered dose intensity were not predictive. The median times to resolution of anaemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia were 7, 9, and 10 months, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Cytopenias often persist >3 months after first-line fludarabine combination therapy and can lead to important clinical sequelae. Although cytopenias generally resolve over time, treating physicians should be aware of these factors when considering fludarabine combination chemotherapy and when documenting treatment response status in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia."
2889	"Two distinct groups of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) are distinguished by the presence or absence of somatic hypermutation of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene. CLL without somatic hypermutation has an adverse outcome, but the precise biological differences that underlie this more aggressive clinical-course are unclear. Using a proteomic approach, we found that the two prognostic forms of CLL were consistently distinguished according to their protein expression pattern. The most important difference observed related to the different expression of nucleophosmin 1 between the two forms of CLL. This different expression was not related to apoptosis, proliferation or gene mutation. However, co-immunoprecipitation experiments identified an association between nucleophosmin 1 and ribosomal proteins. Using immunocytofluorescence, nucleophosmin 1 expression was identified in the nucleoli and nucleoplasm of all  cells, but in a proportion of cells, nucleophosmin had been transferred from the  nucleoplasm to the cytoplasm. Both the fluorescent intensity, and the frequency of cytoplasmic nucleophosmin 1 expression, was higher in CLL without somatic hypermutation. We propose therefore, that nucleophosmin 1, in association with ribosomal proteins, undergoes nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling in CLL. This process is most prominent in un-mutated CLL and may signify altered protein biosynthesis."
2890	"CD52 and CD20 antigens are important therapeutic targets for the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) alemtuzumab and rituximab respectively. Circulating CD52 (cCD52) and CD20 (cCD20) have prognostic utility in lymphoid malignancies. The efficacy of mAb therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) may  be adversely affected by cCD52 or cCD20. In this report, blood and bone marrow (BM) cCD52 and cCD20 were measured at response assessment in previously treated (N = 235) patients with CLL who received fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR). Univariate and multivariate statistical models evaluated correlations of pre- and response variables with progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS). Response variables included 1996 National Cancer Institute-Working Group (NCI-WG) response, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGHV) in BM, and cCD52 and cCD20 levels (blood and BM) at response assessment. Using multivariate analysis, response blood and BM cCD52, blood cCD20, and NCI-WG response were significant independent predictors of PFS. At the time of response assessment, BM cCD52 correlated with OS in univariate analysis. cCD52 and cCD20, therefore appear useful in predicting survival and may be important for monitoring patients following salvage FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab) therapy. These data further indicate that plasma may be a good target to evaluate for minimal residual disease using cCD52/cCD20 levels."
2891	"Deletion 13q14 on fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis is the most  common cytogenetic abnormality in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), and is a favourable prognostic biomarker when detected as a sole abnormality. We intensively interrogated clinical outcome in 323 consecutive, untreated CLL patients with isolated 13q- identified within 2 years of diagnosis. We also analyzed outcome in 217 additional patients with deletion 11q22.3 or 17p13.1, or  trisomy 12, based on whether these occurred in isolation or in conjunction with 13q-. Patients with a heterozygous 13q- and those with a homozygous deletion had  similar time to first treatment (TFT) and overall survival (OS). In contrast, a higher percentage of 13q- nuclei was associated with significantly shorter TFT (P < 0.001). The 5-year untreated rate was 79% for patients with isolated 13q- in <  or =65.5% of nuclei compared to 38% among those with 13q- in >65.5% of nuclei (P  < 0.001). The percentage of nuclei exhibiting 13q- remained an independent predictor of TFT after controlling for ZAP-70, IGHV, or CD38 (all P < 0.001). Among patients with 13q- plus one other FISH abnormality, concomitant 13q- appeared to attenuate the shorter survival associated with 17p- (P = 0.019). The  clinical implications of 13q- in CLL appear more complex than originally appreciated."
2893	"The reciprocal familial risk between chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) suggests genetic variants with pleiotropic effects may influence the risk of both CLL and HL. We have recently shown that the IRF4 variant rs872071 influences CLL risk. To examine if rs872071 genotype is associated with HL risk we genotyped two case-control series (totalling, 529 and  2192, respectively). This analysis provides evidence that IRF4 rs872071 influences HL risk; Odds Ratio = 1.21 (95% confidence interval: 1.05-1.39, P = 0.009) and highlights the importance of inherited variation in B-cell developmental genes in the development of HL."
2894	"INTRODUCTION: The vascular complications of herpes zoster are well recognised, however, there are few reports of central retinal artery occlusion. Central retinal artery occlusion following herpes zoster ophthalmicus is poorly recognised. This is likely due to the difficulties in obtaining tissue for histopathology to establish causality. We report a case of central retinal artery occlusion and complete internal carotid artery occlusion following herpes zoster  ophthalmicus. CASE PRESENTATION: A 44 year old Caucasian female presented with sudden painless  loss of vision in her right eye on a background of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  and right sided herpes zoster ophthalmicus. She was initially treated with steroids and antivirals for an underlying presumed vasculitic cause, but review at 24 hours demonstrated a right central retinal artery occlusion. Embolic screen identified complete occlusion of the right internal carotid artery. She was treated with oral antiviral medication for three weeks but had no visual recovery. CONCLUSION: This case highlights an uncommon cause of acute visual loss. We propose that the underlying small and large vessel occlusion in this patient was  due to herpes zoster related vasculopathy. A review of the literature is presented to trace the historical perspective of herpes zoster related vasculopathy."
2898	"We have previously shown an expansion of cytotoxic antigen-experienced CD4(+)T cells (CTLs) that express perforin (PF) in the peripheral blood of patients with  B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). Increased frequencies of CD4(+)CTLs have since been attributed to chronic viral infections, particularly, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). The present study examined the involvement of CD4(+)CTLs  in responses to HCMV in B-CLL, and characterized their differentiation. We studied 36 HCMV seropositive (SP) and seronegative B-CLL patients and 20 healthy  age-matched individuals. The HCMV reactivity of CD4(+)PF(+) and CD4(+)PF(-) cells was determined by interferon-gamma expression, and expression of CD45RA and CCR7  was assessed by flow cytometry. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization was used to measure relative telomere lengths. CD4(+)PF(+)T cell expansion in B-CLL patients  and controls was strongly associated with HCMV seropositivity. CD4(+)PF(+) compared to CD4(+)PF(-) cells from SP B-CLL patients elicited major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted responses to HCMV. CD4(+)PF(+)T cells from patients and controls were enriched with highly differentiated T-effector/memory (CCR7(-)) and revertant (CCR7(-)CD45RA(+)) phenotype. CD4(+)PF(+)T cells from B-CLL patients had shorter telomeres than CD4(+)PF(-)T cells, indicating an extensive replicative history. We conclude that persistent exposure to HCMV antigens in SP B-CLL patients leads to an expansion of the circulating MHC class II-restricted CD4(+)PF(+)T cell population with effector/memory phenotype."
2900	"We describe a case in which ultrasound-guided fine needle core biopsy of a cervical lymph node enabled diagnosis of dual disease. Histological examination of the core biopsy confirmed unsuspected chronic lymphocytic leukaemia with an isolated focus of metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and enabled optimal preoperative planning of treatment. Such a case is extremely unusual and provides evidence of the accurate diagnosis that can be obtained from nodal investigations using ultrasound-guided core biopsy."
2901	"We present an approach to deriving very simple classification rules from microarray data by first selecting very small gene subsets that can ensure highly accurate classification of cancers. Finding such minimum gene subsets can greatly reduce the computational load and "noise" arising from irrelevant genes. The derived simple classification rules allow for accurate diagnosis without the need for any classifiers. This work can simplify gene expression tests by including only a very small number of genes rather than thousands or tens of thousands of genes, which can significantly bring down the cost for cancer testing. These studies also call for further investigations into possible biological relationship between these small number of genes and cancer development and treatment. For example, we report the following simple, and yet 100% accurate, diagnostic rules involving only 2 genes to separate the 3 types of lymphoma patients: the patient has diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), if and only if the expression level of gene GENE1622X is greater than -0.75; the patient has chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), if and only if the expression level of gene  GENE540X is less than -1; and the patient has follicular lymphoma (FL) otherwise, i.e., if and only if the expression level of gene GENE1622X is less than -0.75 and the expression level of gene GENE540X is greater than -1."
2902	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is the most common lymphoid malignancy in the Western world, characterized by clonal growth and accumulation  of monoclonal CD5+ B-cells in peripheral blood, bone marrow and peripheral lymphoid organs. Although the clinical course in B-CLL patients is highly variable, the most conserved feature is the prolonged survival of malignant B-cells, which has been associated to defects in the apoptotic machinery. The apoptosis defects are mainly determined by a defective balance among pro- and anti-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family, often related to resistance of CLL B-cells to chemotherapy. Purine nucleoside analogs or alkylating agents, alone or in combination, are the first-line treatment for B-CLL patients. Alternative, more specifically tailored therapeutics have been developed in recent years, including humanized monoclonal antibodies and kinase inhibitors. Here we shall review the drugs which are commonly used or are currently being assessed in clinical trials on B-CLL patients, their chemical structure, mechanisms of action, pharmacological properties, molecular targets, clinical efficacy and side effects, with a focus on drugs designed to promote apoptosis of malignant B-cells by targeting the Bcl-2 family."
2903	"Although classical mutations in genes such as PIK3CA and PTEN occur at a relatively low frequency in haematological malignancies, activation of PI3K signalling is often detected in these tumours. In some conditions, for example acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), this is due to activating mutations of upstream regulators such as the FLT3 tyrosine kinase or RAS. Primary tumour cells taken from patients with AML, acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and multiple myeloma show varying levels of sensitivity to PI3K and mTOR inhibitors. The challenge now is to conduct high quality trials with novel agents that target these pathways to establish the level of clinical response and to identify those subsets of patients that are more likely to respond."
2904	"INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to screen for cell surface markers that could discriminate CLL-type MBL from CLL or identify CLL cases likely to have stable disease. METHODS: Six color flow cytometry was performed on CLL-type MBL (n = 94) and CLL  (n = 387) at diagnosis or relapse; 39 cases had poor-risk chromosomal abnormalities (17p and/or 11q deletion). Expression of 30 markers was analysed: CCR6, CD10, CD103, CD11c, CD138, CD200, CD22, CD23, CD24, CD25, CD27, CD31, CD38, CD39, CD43, CD49d, CD5, CD52, CD62L, CD63, CD79b, CD81, CD86, CD95, CXCR5, HLADR, IgD, IgG, IgM, LAIR1. RESULTS: There was no difference in expression between CLL-type MBL and CLL for the majority of markers. Differential expression was observed for several markers, mainly between MBL and CLL cases with adverse-risk chromosomal abnormalities. These differences included lower expression of CD38 (9.4-fold lower, P = 0.007) and CD49d (3.2-fold lower, P = 0.008) and higher expression of  LAIR-1 (3.7-fold higher, P = 0.003), CXCR5 (1.25-fold higher, P = 0.002), and CCR6 (1.9-fold higher P < 0.001) on CLL-type MBL compared to CLL with adverse chromosomal abnormalities. CD62L (L-selectin) which mediates lymphocyte adhesion  to endothelial venules of lymphoid tissue, was expressed at a significantly different level between CLL-type MBL and both CLL sub-groups, with 1.3-fold lower (P = 0.04) expression levels on the MBL cases. However, there was broad overlap in expression levels. CONCLUSIONS: CLL-type MBL is phenotypically identical to CLL for a very broad range of markers. Differential expression is predominantly related to known prognostic markers and proteins involved in homing to lymphoid tissue."
2905	"The biological and clinical relationship between Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL) and Monoclonal B-cell Lymphocytosis (MBL) has now been reported in some detail. This review investigates associations between biology and disease activity as they relate to the absolute numbers of abnormal cells. The clonal B-cells in CLL-type MBL are indistinguishable from CLL with respect to surface phenotype and the presence of chromosomal abnormalities. However, the majority of CLL-type MBL cases in the general population have very low numbers of clonal B-cells, typically in the range 0.1-10 per μL, and such cases use different IGHV  genes than higher-count CLL-type MBL cases and often show intraclonal heterogeneity. Cases with higher counts are biologically similar to CLL although  there is a relationship between the CLL cell count at presentation and the likelihood of further clonal expansion. Individuals presenting with CLL cell counts above 2,000 per μL are more likely to have gradually increasing B-cell counts over time and although the risk of requiring treatment for progressive CLL remains low there may be impaired normal B-cell activity."
2906	"Background. Eosinophilic dermatosis of hematologic disorders is a reactive process that may cause a variety of clinical manifestations. Methods. We report a patient who had outbreaks of skin lesions since the onset of chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia. Results. The cutaneous eruptions began as eosinophilic panniculitis and after changed to insect bite-like lesions. Conclusion. We think that eosinophilic panniculitis and insect bite-like lesions may be part of the spectrum of the same entity in patients with hematologic disorders."
2907	"Hypermethylation of CpG islands within gene promoters is one of various mechanisms of gene silencing involved in the pathogenesis of human cancer. By using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction we explored aberrant promoter methylation of five tumour suppressor genes in 29 patients with chronic  lymphocytic leukaemia. Aberrant methylation of DLC1, SHP1, p15 and p16 occurred,  respectively, in 89.7 %, 70 %, 62.1 % and 31 % of patients at diagnosis. Lamin A/C was unmethylated in all the samples. Hypermethylation of at least one gene was detected in 96.6 % of patients. Concurrent methylation of two or more genes correlated with Rai stage at diagnosis."
2909	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) has several unique features that distinguish  it from other cancers. Most CLL tumour cells are inert and arrested in G0/G1 of the cell cycle and there is only a small proliferative compartment; however, the  progressive accumulation of malignant cells will ultimately lead to symptomatic disease. Pathogenic mechanisms have been elucidated that involve multiple external (for example, microenvironmental stimuli and antigenic drive) and internal (genetic and epigenetic) events that are crucial in the transformation,  progression and evolution of CLL. Our growing understanding of CLL biology is allowing the translation of targets and biological classifiers into clinical practice."
2912	"Several prognostic factors can predict the rapid progression in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), including IGHV mutational status, cytogenetic abnormalities and, more recently, LPL/ADAM29 expression. In contrast, few studies have been devoted to the influence of these factors on clinical outcome in responding patients after therapy. We here propose to analyse the impact of IGHV  gene status, LPL and ADAM29 gene expression on disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in 41 stage B or C CLL patients in remission after oral fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide. The median follow-up was of 64 (16-74) months. Sequencing of IGHV showed mutated (M) VH genes in 16 of 41 cases and unmutated (UM) in 25 cases. Analysis of LPL and ADAM29 expression in 35 of 41 cases showed  overexpression of ADAM29 in 17 cases (14 M and three UM) and LPL in 18 cases (all UM). Patients expressing UM IGHV and LPL had shorter DFS and OS when compared to  patients expressing M IGHV and/or ADAM29. Furthermore, blood minimal residual disease (MRD) evaluation using four-colour flow cytometry was performed in 33 out the 41 patients. We showed that patients who achieved phenotypic remission displayed longer DFS than those with MRD(+). Our results support the use of LPL and ADAM29 gene expression associated to IGHV mutational status for predicting the clinical outcome of patients treated by oral fludarabine + cyclophosphamide and could be considered for treatment strategies."
2913	"BACKGROUND: Reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) allogeneic haemopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) is increasingly considered as a therapeutic option for younger patients with poor-risk chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). In this retrospective analysis, we assessed the outcomes of CLL patients undergoing RIC allo-HCT compared with a group of matched controls that were candidates for transplantation but did not have a suitable donor or refused the procedure. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Cases comprised 37 patients who underwent RIC allo-HCT. Haemopoietic cell grafts were harvested from HLA-matched siblings (27) and unrelated donors (7). Controls consisted of 43 patients from the same institutions who received conventional therapy only. Matching variables were age  at diagnosis and time to first CLL-specific therapy. RESULTS: Both patient groups were well balanced in terms of cytogenetics by FISH, CD38 and ZAP-70 expression, and immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region mutational status. Median overall survival was 113 months for HCT patients and 85 months for controls when calculated from time of diagnosis (P = 0.072) and 103 and 67 months, respectively, when calculated from time of first therapy (P = 0.041). CONCLUSION: RIC allo-HCT is a reasonable option for patients with high-risk CLL.  However, these results require confirmation before the procedure can be recommended outside clinical trials."
2914	"INTRODUCTION: Involvement of the central nervous system as the first manifestation of multiple myeloma is very rare. AIM: To present an unusual case of the primomanifestation of a multiple myeloma in the form of a focal affection of the central nervous system in a patient with  chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. METHODS AND RESULTS: A female patient diagnosed with chronic B-lymphocytic leukaemia with gradually increasing right-sided cerebellar symptomatology. The CT examination revealed expansion of the cranial vault with significant compression  of brain structures. The tumour was extirpated and the histological examination led to a diagnosis of a plasmocytic myeloma. A thorough examination confirmed the diagnosis of multiple myeloma with significant osteolytic involvement of the skeleton. A combined chemo- and radiotherapy resulted in adjustment in the focal  neurological finding, and a partial remission of the multiple myeloma was achieved. CONCLUSION: The above presented case describes two very unusual states: the primomanifestation of a multiple myeloma in form of a focal affection of the central nervous system, and the coincidence of a multiple myeloma as the second haematological malignancy in a patient with chronic B-lymphocytic leukaemia."
2915	"The functional evaluation of ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and p53 was recently developed in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), a disease in  which the response to DNA damage is frequently altered. We identified a novel biomarker of chemosensitivity based on the induction of DNA damage by the purine  nucleoside analogues (PNA) fludarabine and 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (CdA). Using genome-wide expression profiling, it was observed that, in chemosensitive samples, PNA predominantly increased the expression of p53-dependent genes, among which PLK2 was the most highly activated at early time points. Conversely, in chemoresistant samples, p53-dependent and PLK2 responses were abolished. Using a  quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction, we confirmed that PNA dose- and time-dependently increased PLK2 expression in chemosensitive but not chemoresistant B-CLL samples. Analysis of a larger cohort of B-CLL patients showed that cytotoxicity induced by PNA correlated well with PLK2 mRNA induction. Interestingly, we observed that failure to up-regulate PLK2 following PNA and chemoresistance were not strictly correlated with structural alterations in the TP53 gene. In conclusion, we propose that testing PLK2 activation after a 24-h incubation with PNA could be used to investigate the functional integrity of DNA  damage-response pathways in B-CLL cells, and predict clinical sensitivity to these drugs."
2916	"Samples submitted for a suspect of chronic lymphocytic leukemia are the most frequently observed in flow cytometry laboratories. These cases require not only  a precise and prompt diagnosis but also an evaluation on the possibility of performing additional prognostic tests. We will propose two sequential flow cytometry panels and a personal opinion on how to manage these samples for both diagnostic and prognostic assessment, taking into account the published guidelines and recommendations."
2917	"AIMS: Intravascular lymphocytosis (IVL) in appendectomy specimens is a fairly common phenomenon but has not been described and studied in detail. The aim was to describe the IVL phenomenon in appendiceal specimens removed for appendicitis  that can mimic chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and to investigate factors that could contribute to the development of IVL. METHODS AND RESULTS: The clinicopathology of 100 appendectomy cases and the appendices from 20 right hemicolectomy cases were reviewed. The IVL phenomenon was more commonly seen in laparoscopic appendectomy specimens [Fisher's exact 0.011, odds ratio (OR) 3.14] and in patients <38 years old (Fisher's exact 0.012, OR 3.01). CONCLUSIONS: Surgical manipulation and the patient's innate immunity are contributary factors to the development of the IVL phenomenon. Pathologists should be aware of this histological artefact in order to prevent overdiagnosis of intravascular lymphoid neoplasia."
2919	"BACKGROUND: Combined Fludarabine and Cyclophosphamide is now standard first-line  therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and the addition of Rituximab improves outcome. METHODS: We adopted a modified Fludarabine, Cyclophosphamide and Rituximab (FCR)  protocol in treating 39 patients (median age 57 years) with progressive or advanced CLL. Depending on CR, treatment was given for four or six cycles. RESULT: Twenty-six patients were treatment naïve and 13 were pre-treated. Twelve  patients had progressive Binet stage A, 16 stage B and 11 stage C disease. The overall response rate (ORR) was 100%, with 75% achieving CR. Neutropenia was the  major toxicity in 71/187 (38%) of the cycles. There were five deaths, two from infection and three from progressive disease. Twenty-six of 31 patients have maintained their post-treatment disease status for a median of 17 months (2-41). CONCLUSION: We conclude that FCR is a feasible, well-tolerated and effective treatment for patients with CLL."
2921	"Here we present the case of a patient with diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) on routine protocol biopsy 3 months following kidney transplantation. Genetic analysis confirmed the origin of the malignancy, being the recipient. Differential diagnosis with post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is extremely important in order to avoid unnecessary devastating  treatment. This case is challenging, both in terms of making the correct diagnosis and in terms of optimal treatment. The case underscores that it is extremely important to distinguish between a pre-existing lymphoma diagnosis after transplantation and a true PTLD as the treatment options of both are very divergent."
2922	"The aim of this study was to evaluate the factors predisposing to implants of endometriotic lesions in normal ovarian cortexes of women with and without endometriosis by assessing the expression of pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic factors and follicular density. Ovarian biopsies were performed during laparoscopy in 18 patients with endometrioma and in 10 healthy women. Detection of apoptosis was performed with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling assay. p53 and BCL2 proteins were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate BAX , BAK , BCL2 , BCL-XL , survivin and beta-actin ( ACTB  ) expression. The p53 protein was positive in a significantly higher number of secondary follicles, whereas the B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/lymphoma 2  (BCL2) protein was positive in all follicles in unaffected tissue of endometriotic women, compared with the controls. Overexpression of the BCL2 and survivin genes and a decreased BAX and BAK gene expression were observed in the endometriotic group although only the difference in survivin expression was significant (P = 0.016). The BCL2 / BAX ratio showed an increased value in the ovarian cortex in controls compared with endometriosis patients. In conclusion, the reduction of apoptosis in unaffected tissue in women with endometriosis suggests that they may be predisposed to develop endometriosis."
2923	"Lck/yes-related novel (Lyn) tyrosine kinase overexpression has been suggested to  be important for leukaemic cell growth making it an attractive target for therapy. By contrast, Lyn deficiency was shown to be responsible for a phenotype  resembling myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) in mice. We aimed to shed more light on Lyn's role in haematological neoplasm and systematically investigated Lyn expression in MPN, acute and chronic leukaemia subtypes (n = 236). On top, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) and chronic myeloid leukaemia significantly overexpressed Lyn when compared to de novo acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, de novo acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and Philadelphia-chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (p < 0.001). Most of acute leukaemia subtypes showed a notable down-regulation of Lyn mRNA but anyhow individual cases were labelled for the active form of Lyn protein. Intriguingly, secondary AML evolved in myelodysplastic syndromes revealed almost undetectable Lyn. Overexpression of Lyn in B-CLL was associated with a significant down-regulation of microRNA-337-5p suggesting that aberrant expression of this particular microRNA could be involved in post-transcriptional control of Lyn mRNA fate. We conclude that tyrosine kinase Lyn contributes to the malignant phenotype in certain leukaemia subtypes and therefore attracts targeted therapy."
2925	"It was hypothesized that contact between chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) B-cells and marrow stromal cells impact both cell types. To test this hypothesis, we utilized a long-term primary culture system from bone biopsies that reliably generates a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC). Co-culture of MSC with CLL B-cells protected the latter from both spontaneous apoptosis and drug-induced apoptosis.  The CD38 expression in previously CD38 positive CLL B-cells was up-regulated with MSC co-culture. Upregulation of CD71, CD25, CD69 and CD70 in CLL B-cells was found in the co-culture. CD71 upregulation was more significantly associated with high-risk CLL, implicating CD71 regulation in the microenvironment predicting disease progression. In MSC, rapid ERK and AKT phosphorylation (within 30 min) were detected when CLL B-cells and MSC were separated by transwell; indicating that activation of MSC was mediated by soluble factors. These findings support a  bi-directional activation between bone marrow stromal cells and CLL B-cells."
2926	"MGCD0103, an orally available class I histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, was examined for pre-clinical activity in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). A phase II clinical trial was performed, starting at a dose of 85 mg/d, three times per week. Dose escalation to 110 mg or the addition of rituximab was permitted in patients without a response after two or more cycles. MGCD0103 demonstrated pre-clinical activity against CLL cells with a LC(50) (concentration lethal to 50%) of 0.23 micromol/l and increased acetylation of the HDAC class I specific target histone H3. Twenty-one patients received a median of two cycles of MGCD0103 (range, 0-12). All patients had previously received fludarabine, 33% were fludarabine refractory, and 71% had del(11q22.3) or del(17p13.1). No responses according to the National Cancer Institutes 1996 criteria were observed. Three patients received 110 mg and four patients received concomitant rituximab, with no improvement in response. Grade 3-4 toxicity consisted of infections, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, diarrhoea, and fatigue. HDAC inhibition was observed in six out of nine patients on day 8. Limited activity was observed  with single agent MGCD0103 in high risk patients with CLL. Future investigations  in CLL should focus on broad HDAC inhibition, combination strategies, and approaches to diminish constitutional symptoms associated with this class of drugs."
2927	"Emerging evidence supports a role for immune-related factors in the causation of  chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Using the population-based U.S. Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results-Medicare database, 10,171 elderly CLL patients and 122,531 frequency-matched controls were identified in order to evaluate several community acquired infections associated with subsequent CLL risk. Odds ratios (ORs) were adjusted for gender, age, race, calendar year and number of physician  claims. CLL risk was increased following Medicare claims for sinusitis (OR = 1.11; 95% CI = 1.05-1.17), pharyngitis (OR = 1.15; 1.08-1.22), bronchitis (OR = 1.14; 1.08-1.19), pneumonia (OR = 1.17; 1.11-1.24), influenza (OR = 1.10; 1.01-1.19), cellulitis (OR = 1.08; 1.02-1.14) and herpes zoster (OR = 1.26; 1.15-1.37). Associations with pneumonia and cellulitis remained significant when  the 5-year period before diagnosis/control selection was excluded. CLL risk increased with increasing severity/frequency of pneumonia (P = 0.005), cellulitis (P < 0.001) and herpes zoster (P < 0.001). Our findings suggest that common infections may play a role in CLL aetiology. Alternatively, the associations might reflect an underlying immune disturbance present several years prior to CLL diagnosis."
2928	"The transcription factor Pax5 plays a critical role in B cell development. It has been shown that alternative splicing of its gene (PAX5) produces several distinct transcripts that modify the amino acid sequence of the putative Pax5 proteins. Subsequent studies have attempted to correlate the expression of PAX5 isoforms with certain B-cell lymphomas, the conclusions of which suggest that altered isoform expression is involved in lymphomagenesis. However, in the absence of definitive data for PAX5 isoform expression patterns in normal B cells it is difficult to confirm whether aberrant isoform expression can indeed be correlated with disease. Using a high-resolution method of analysis of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction products, we sought to analyse the expression of the different PAX5 isoforms in normal B-cells as well as a number of B-cell lymphoma  and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia cases. It was found that multiple PAX5 isoforms were expressed in both normal and malignant B cells. Immunodetection and polysomal RNA analyses also confirmed that the different PAX5 mRNAs were translated into their corresponding proteins. No consistent deregulation of PAX5  isoform expression was observed in B-cell lymphomas, but rather, complex isoform  expression patterns were found in normal B cell as well as B-cell lymphoma and CLL cases."
2929	"8-Chloroadenosine (8-Cl-Ado), an RNA-directed nucleoside analogue, is currently under evaluation in phase I clinical trials for treatment of chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia. In the current study, the efficacy of 8-Cl-Ado was evaluated using mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) cell lines: Granta 519, JeKo, Mino, and SP-53. After continuous exposure to 10 mumol/l 8-Cl-Ado for 24 h, loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and poly [adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribose] polymerase  (PARP) cleavage were detected in three of four cell lines. Reduced ATP levels (30-60% reduction) and concurrent 8-Cl-ATP accumulation were highly associated with cell death (P < 0.01). The intracellular 8-Cl-ATP concentrations were also highly correlated with inhibition of global transcription (50-90%, r(2) = 0.90, P < 0.01). However, the inhibition of transcription only accounted for 30-40% of cell death as determined by equivalent inhibition with actinomycin D. Likewise, short-lived mRNAs, those encoding cyclin D1 and Mcl-1, were not consistently reduced after treatment. Unique to MCL as compared to other haematological malignancies, 8-Cl-Ado inhibited the rates of DNA synthesis and selectively depleted dATP pools (50-80%). We conclude that the DNA and RNA directed actions of 8-Cl-Ado in combination with depleted energetics may promote cell death and inhibit growth of MCL cell lines."
2930	"Although biological similarities have been described among monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), the relationships between these two conditions are not fully understood, and new epidemiological studies in different populations and different countries continue to be reported. Here, we investigated 167 first-degree relatives from 42 families of patients with non-familial (sporadic) CLL, using four-colour flow cytometry. MBL was found in seven of 167 subjects (4.1%). Monoclonality was detected in all cases either by light-chain restriction or by polymerase chain reaction. Fluorescence in situ  hybridization did not show any chromosomal abnormality. The prevalence of MBL according to age was 0 (0/54) in individuals aged less than 40 years, 2.5% (2/81) between 40 and 60 years, and 15.6% (5/32) in individuals over 60 years. The prevalence of MBL cases in individuals over 60 years was similar to that found in familial CLL relatives at the same age group. This suggests that in older first-degree relatives of patients with sporadic CLL, the risk of MBL detection is as high as in older first-degree relatives from CLL families, which could render these individuals belonging to 'sporadic CLL families' as susceptible as individuals from 'familial CLL' to the development of clinical CLL."
2933	"OBJECTIVES: To investigate the pattern of glutamate dehydrogenase (GLDH) activity, GLUD1 and GLUD2 expressions in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of untreated B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) in healthy individuals (HI) and patients with infectious mononucleosis (IM). DESIGN AND METHODS: GLDH activity was determined in a supernatant obtained from pelleted PBMC. GLUD1 and GLUD2 mRNA expression was determined using a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. CD19(+) B cells from PBMC were  purified by using positive selection. RESULTS: The highest GLDH activity was found in PBMC of the B-CLL group followed  by the HI group and IM group. The PBMC GLDH activity was higher in 60% of the B-CLL patients according to the established reference interval for our HI (2.17-5.70 microkat/g protein). The greater GLDH activity was also found in the CD19(+) cell preparation of the B-CLL patients (two of the three) but not in HI (n=3). The median value of GLUD1 expression was highest in the IM group (n=11), followed by the HI (n=14) and B-CLL groups (n=59) (median 4.69/3.78, P<0.005 and  4.69/2.91, P<0.0005, respectively). GLUD2 expression was not significantly different between groups. CONCLUSIONS: The increased GLDH activity is specific for the PBMC of B-CLL patients. The GLUD1 but not the GLUD2 gene expression pattern is different between the PBMC of IM and B-CLL patients."
2934	"Cytotoxic chemotherapies do not usually mediate the expression of an immunogenic  gene programme in tumours, despite activating many of the signalling pathways employed by highly immunogenic cells. Concomitant use of agents that modulate and complement stress-signalling pathways activated by chemotherapeutic agents may then enhance the immunogenicity of cancer cells, increase their susceptibility to T cell-mediated controls and lead to higher clinical remission rates. Consistent  with this hypothesis, the microtubule inhibitor, vincristine, caused chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells to die rapidly, without increasing their immunogenicity. Protein kinase C (PKC) agonists (such as bryostatin) delayed the  death of vincristine-treated CLL cells and made them highly immunogenic, with increased stimulatory abilities in mixed lymphocyte responses, production of proinflammatory cytokines, expression of co-stimulatory molecules and activation  of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) signalling pathways. This phenotype was similar to the result of activating CLL cells through Toll-like receptors (TLRs), which communicate 'danger' signals from infectious pathogens. Use of PKC agonists and microtubule inhibitors to mimic TLR-signalling, and increase the immunogenicity of CLL cells, has implications for the design of chemo-immunotherapeutic strategies."
2935	"BACKGROUND: The impact of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) on survival may be  different in younger patients, but this remains controversial. OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to examine the effect of age on survival in  CLL using an original method. METHODS: Clinical, laboratory and survival data of 87 CLL patients treated in our institute were analysed. The survival of patients in different age groups was determined and compared, as related to the expected survival of age- and gender-matched general population obtained from national statistical data. RESULTS: The mean age in the younger (< or = 65 years, n = 37) and older (> 65 years) age groups was 56 and 74 years (p < 0.001). The younger group had more unfavourable presentation, with advanced stage (Rai 2-4) in 46% vs. 16% (p = 0.002), and diffuse involvement of bone marrow in 60% vs. 18% (p = 0.03), compared with the older group, and were more likely to require treatment (p = 0.02). The Kaplan-Meyer curve showed a more favourable survival for the younger group. However, the loss of expected survival exposed a reversed pattern: while the older patients lost only 13%, the survival loss in the younger patients was 44% (p < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia had a more unfavourable presentation and a more severe clinical course in the younger patients. Our method of evaluating the negative impact of disease on expected survival reveals that their survival also is significantly more affected than that of older patients. We suggest calculating the loss of expected survival as a new criterion for assessing disease impact."
2939	"BACKGROUND: Immunosuppression and Merkel-cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) infection may  have a role in the pathogenesis of Merkel-cell carcinoma (MCC), a rare neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin. METHODS: We studied incidence of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and MCC from the files of the Finnish Cancer Registry and the largest hospital of Finland, Helsinki University Central Hospital, from 1979 to 2006. Presence of MCPyV DNA in MCCs was investigated by quantitative PCR. RESULTS: We identified 4164 patients diagnosed with CLL and 172 diagnosed with MCC. Six patients diagnosed with both diseases were found; CLL was the first diagnosis in four cases and MCC in two. The standardised incidence ratio (SIR) for CLL after the diagnosis of MCC was highly elevated, 17.9 (95% confidence interval (CI), 2.2-64.6; P<0.001), and the SIR for MCC after the diagnosis of CLL was also elevated, 15.7 (3.2-46.0, P<0.01). Merkel-cell polyomavirus DNA was present in all five MCCs with tumour tissue available for analysis. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that patients diagnosed with CLL have a substantially increased risk for MCC, and vice versa. Merkel-cell polyomavirus DNA is frequently present in MCCs that occur in CLL patients. Immunosuppression related  with CLL and viral infection might explain the association between CLL and MCC."
2940	"BACKGROUND: Little information is available on the causes of death among persons  with classic Kaposi's sarcoma (CKS). METHODS: We conducted a population-based study in Italy to identify deceased persons with CKS and the underlying causes of death among them, by reviewing multiple-causes-of-death records. Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) and 95% confidence intervals were calculated to compare the distribution of causes to that among the same-age general population of deceased persons. The geographical  distribution was also evaluated. RESULTS: Of the 946 deaths among persons with CKS, 65.9% were attributable to non-neoplastic conditions and 21.9% to malignancies. For 12.2%, no lethal pathology was identified and CKS was considered as the underlying cause. In 90% of these cases, there was visceral/nodal involvement, therapy-related complications, or neoplastic cachexia. Among persons with CKS who died of other causes, an excess for lymphoid malignancies emerged (SMR=4.40) (chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (11.03), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (4.22), Hodgkin's lymphoma  (11.80), and multiple myeloma (2.3)), balanced by a deficit for all solid cancers (0.56), with a marked deficit for lung cancer (0.41). We found an excess for respiratory diseases (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (1.86)) and genitourinary diseases (chronic renal failure (6.47)). There was marked geographical heterogeneity in the distribution of deaths. CONCLUSIONS: Though referring specifically to Italy, the results are informative  for other countries and populations and all cases of CKS in general."
2942	"Aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), including primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma, lymphoblastic lymphoma and non-endemic Burkitt's lymphoma have been recognized as AIDS-defining cancers in most developed countries. However, HIV/AIDS epidemics appear not to have been associated with higher incidence of lymphomas in Africa. We therefore carried out this study to highlight the significance or otherwise of HIV/AIDS epidemics in the pathogenesis of lymphomas  in a population of Nigerians with the disease. Since January 1993 to the present, all patients with haematologic cancers are routinely screened (following appropriate counseling) for HIV infection. Patients with a histological diagnosis of malignant chronic lymphoproliferative diseases {non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) and Hodgkin lymphoma (HL)} at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitals' Complex, Ile-Ife from January 1993 to August 2008 were noted. Those patients confirmed to be HIV/AIDS positive among the cohort with lymphomas were retrospectively studied using their clinical case notes. Data obtained were analyzed using appropriate descriptive and inferential statistics. A total of 391 patients were histologically confirmed to have lymphoma {NHL-109, (27.9%); CLL-76, (19.4%); BL-178, (45.5%) and HL-28, (7.2%)} during the study period. Nine patients (2.3%) were confirmed to be HIV- positive, all within the age bracket 24-60 (median = 50) years. Six of these, five males and one female, ages 24-60 (median = 37.5) years, had NHL while another three, all females (age 50 - 68 years; median = 56 years) had CLL. None of the patients with HL and BL were HIV positive. Patients with NHL presented at  advanced stage of the disease (at least clinical stage IIIb), and all those with  CLL presented at stage C of the International Working Party Classification. All the HIV-positive patients with NHL succumbed to the disease within one to three weeks of admission into the hospital. The prevalence of AIDS-related lymphomas is 2.3% compared to 4.4% found in the general population. However, it is interesting that no single case of AIDS-associated BL was seen, despite the fact that Burkitt's lymphoma is endemic in this part of the world. All the patients presented at a very advanced stage of the disease with significantly shortened survival."
2944	"Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against CD52, an antigen found on  the surface of normal and malignant lymphocytes. It is approved for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and is undergoing Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. The exact mechanism by which alemtuzumab mediates its biological effects in vivo is not clearly defined and mechanism of action studies have been hampered by the lack of cross-reactivity between human and mouse CD52. To address this issue, a transgenic mouse expressing human CD52 (hCD52) was created. Transgenic mice did not display any phenotypic abnormalities and were able to mount normal immune responses. The tissue distribution of hCD52 and the level of expression by various immune cell populations were comparable to those seen in humans. Treatment with alemtuzumab replicated the transient increase in serum cytokines and depletion of peripheral  blood lymphocytes observed in humans. Lymphocyte depletion was not as profound in lymphoid organs, providing a possible explanation for the relatively low incidence of infection in alemtuzumab-treated patients. Interestingly, both lymphocyte depletion and cytokine induction by alemtuzumab were largely independent of complement and appeared to be mediated by neutrophils and natural  killer cells because removal of these populations with antibodies to Gr-1 or asialo-GM-1, respectively, strongly inhibited the activity of alemtuzumab whereas removal of complement by treatment with cobra venom factor had no impact. The hCD52 transgenic mouse appears to be a useful model and has provided evidence for the previously uncharacterized involvement of neutrophils in the activity of alemtuzumab."
2946	"Over the past decade, monoclonal antibodies have dramatically impacted the treatment of haematological malignancies, as evidenced by the effect of rituximab on the response rate and survival of patients with follicular and diffuse large B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Currently, only two monoclonal antibodies - the anti-CD33 immunotoxin gemtuzumab ozogamicin and the CD52-directed antibody alemtuzumab - are approved for treatment of relapsed acute myeloid leukaemia in older patients and B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, respectively. Although not approved for such treatment, alemtuzumab is also active against T cell prolymphocytic leukaemia, cutaneous T cell lymphoma and Sézary syndrome, and adult T cell leukaemia and lymphoma. In addition, rituximab has demonstrated activity against B cell chronic lymphocytic and hairy cell leukaemia. Monoclonal  antibodies targeting CD4, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD23, CD25, CD45, CD66 and CD122 are  now being studied in the clinic for the treatment of leukaemia. Here, we discuss  how these new antibodies have been engineered to reduce immunogenicity and improve antibody targeting and binding. Improved interactions with Fc receptors on immune effector cells can enhance destruction of target cells through antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and complement-mediated cell lysis. The  antibodies can also be armed with cellular toxins or radionuclides to enhance the destruction of leukaemia cells."
2947	"BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, noncoding RNAs that regulate the expression of multiple target genes. Deregulation of miRNAs is common in human tumorigenesis. The miRNAs, MIR-15a/16-1, at chromosome band 13q14 are down-regulated in the majority of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We have measured the expression of MIR-15a/16-1,  and 92 computationally-predicted MIR-15a/16-1 target genes in CLL patients and in normal controls. We identified 35 genes that are deregulated in CLL patients, 5 of which appear to be specific targets of the MIR-15a/16-1 cluster. These targets included 2 genes (BAZ2A and RNF41) that were significantly up-regulated (p<0.05)  and 3 genes (RASSF5, MKK3 and LRIG1) that were significantly down-regulated (p<0.05) in CLL patients with down-regulated MIR-15a/16-1 expression. SIGNIFICANCE: The genes identified here as being subject to MIR-15a/16-1 regulation could represent direct or indirect targets of these miRNAs. Many of these are good biological candidates for involvement in tumorigenesis and as such, may be important in the aetiology of CLL."
2948	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is a common lymphoid malignancy with a variable clinical course. While some patients never require treatment or can be managed effectively with palliative chemotherapy, others experience early disease progression and death. The development of new prognostic markers has helped in the identification of patients with high risk disease, even among those diagnosed at early stage. Recent prospective trials have established chemo-immunotherapy combinations as the new standard of care for CLL patients requiring therapy. Unfortunately, patients whose tumour cells have certain genomic aberrations, such as a chromosome 17 deletion, have a disease that is frequently refractory to conventional therapy and should have their treatment tailored accordingly. Younger patients with high risk disease should be referred for allogeneic haematopoietic cell transplantation if they have an appropriate donor. For the remaining high risk patients, a number of new compounds are emerging, which could lead to further improvement in their outcome."
2949	"Serum levels of pro-[vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)] and anti-[thrombospondin-1 (TSP)] angiogenic cytokines were prospectively measured in a phase II trial of chemoimmunotherapy (CIT) for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients (n = 56). Pretreatment VEGF levels were lower among patients who achieved complete remission (CR) or nodular partial remission (nPR) relative to those with partial remission (PR) or stable/progressive disease (median 122.0 pg/ml vs. 246.8 pg/ml; P = 0.03). VEGF:TSP ratio was lower (anti-angiogenic phenotype) among patients who achieved CR/nPR. The pretreatment VEGF:TSP ratio also correlated with overall survival (P = 0.008). A pro-angiogenic profile appears associated with diminished response and inferior survival in CLL patients receiving CIT."
2950	"Demonstration of cyclin D1 expression by immunohistochemistry in a CD5-positive small B-cell proliferation is extremely helpful in the diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma in tissue samples, including bone marrow trephine biopsies (BMTB) and in differentiating them from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Following the identification of cyclin D1 expression in one case of CLL on BMTB, 64 additional  cases, which included 25 lymph nodes, one tonsillar lesion, one skin lesion and 37 BMTBs were systematically reviewed for presence of cyclin D1 overexpression. Overall, in seven of 65 samples (approximately 10%) of CLL, a minority of the leukaemic cells in the proliferation centres expressed cyclin D1. Cytogenetic analysis had been performed in three of seven cases and there was no evidence of  translocation involving CCND1 locus. Our findings suggest that a small subset of  CLL overexpresses cyclin D1 in amounts that can be demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. Our observation has impact on the diagnosis of small B-cell lymphomas in BMTB and other tissue samples."
2952	"To date, studies on T cells in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) have been limited to  flow cytometric analysis of whole peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) specimens or functional work looking at the impact of AML myeloblasts on normal or remission T cells. This lack of information on T cells at the time of presentation with disease is due in part to the difficulty in isolating sufficiently pure T cells from these specimens for further study. Negative immunomagnetic selection has been the method of choice for isolating immune cells for functional studies due to concerns that binding antibodies to the cell surface may induce cellular activation, block ligand-receptor interactions or result in immune clearance. In order specifically to study T cells in presentation AML specimens, we set out to develop a method of isolating highly pure CD4 and CD8 T cells by negative selection from the peripheral blood (PB) of  newly diagnosed AML patients. This technique, unlike T cell selection from PB from normal individuals or from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, was  extremely problematic due to properties of the leukaemic myeloblasts. A successful method was eventually optimized requiring the use of a custom antibody cocktail consisting of CD33, CD34, CD123, CD11c and CD36, to deplete myeloblasts."
2953	"Familial aggregation, linkage and case-control studies support the role of germline genes in the aetiology of lymphoid malignancies. To further examine the  role of genetic variation underlying susceptibility, we analysed 1536 single nucleotide polymorphisms in 152 genes involved in apoptosis, DNA repair, immune response and oxidative stress pathways among a unique sample of 165 unrelated familial cases including patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), Waldenström macroglobulinaemia (WM) and Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), and 107 spouse controls. We confirmed previous studies showing a polymorphism in the IL10 promoter (rs1800890/-3575T>A) to be associated with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, as this allele was found to be associated with both CLL and WM. We also confirmed the role of IL6 variation to be associated with HL. Polymorphisms in TNFSF10 were associated with both CLL and WM. Future replication and functional studies are needed to clarify the role of these genetic variants. Finally, our data further support the close association of WM and CLL."
2954	"Previous results with individualised tumour response testing (ITRT) in vitro in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) have consistently shown good correlation with patient response and survival. We describe here an improved test and report its use with samples from the Leukaemia Research Fund CLL4 randomised clinical trial  and previously treated patients. ITRT was performed by the tumour response to anti-neoplastic compounds (TRAC) assay, a modification of the differential staining cytotoxicity (DiSC) assay. Improvements included drying drugs into wells before assay and using the Octospot system to cytocentrifuge eight spots of cells onto one microscope slide. We successfully tested 765/782 (98%) cellular blood samples received within 48 h of phlebotomy. Cross-resistance (Pearson's r > 0.7)  in untreated CLL was found between similar drugs. Mitoxantrone (r = 0.31), cyclophosphamide (r = 0.35) and pentostatin (r = 0.29) had low cross-resistance with fludarabine. Treatment resulted in increased resistance to chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, mitoxantrone, corticosteroids, cladribine and fludarabine (P < 0.01) but not to pentostatin. These results provide further rationale for standard drug combinations such as fludarabine-mitoxantrone and fludarabine-mitoxantrone-cyclophosphamide and suggest possible pentostatin salvage in fludarabine-resistant patients. ITRT results could assist both in determining the best treatment for individual patients and in the design and rationale of future clinical trials."
2957	"Progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML) is a serious and usually fatal CNS infection caused by JC polyoma virus. CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphopenia, resulting  from HIV infection, chemotherapy, or immunosuppressive therapy, are the primary risk factors. The immune modulatory monoclonal antibodies rituximab, natalizumab, and efalizumab have received regulatory approval in the USA and Europe for treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, rheumatoid arthritis, and chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia (Europe only); multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease; and psoriasis, respectively. Efalizumab and natalizumab administration is associated with CD4+ T lymphopenia and altered trafficking of T lymphocytes into the CNS, and rituximab  leads to prolonged B-lymphocyte depletion. Unexpected cases of PML developing in  people who receive these drugs have been reported, with many of the affected individuals dying from this disease. Herein, we review clinical findings, pathology, epidemiology, basic science, and risk-management issues associated with PML infection developing after treatment with these monoclonal antibodies."
2959	"A 48-year-old patient presented with a nonhealing leg ulcer and a raised white blood cell count. He was diagnosed with pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) and small lymphocytic leukaemia/chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (SLL/CLL). Eight months later, after undergoing treatment with chlorambucil for the SLL/CLL, and prednisone, ciclosporin and intravenous immunoglobulin for the PG, the patient developed livedo reticularis and palpable purpura, and was diagnosed with systemic polyarteritis nodosa (PAN). The case highlights the difficulty in establishing a diagnosis of PAN by biopsy of cutaneous ulcers alone, and that a diagnosis of PG should raise suspicion of another aetiology."
2960	"BACKGROUND: The prognosis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients is largely determined by the karyotype of the malignant clone. We have investigated  the gene expression profile associated with trisomy 12 (+12). DESIGN: Initially, unselected peripheral blood mononuclear cells of four patients with +12 were compared with 16 CLL controls using microarray analysis. RESULTS: were validated by quantitative real-time PCR with RNA from 61 patients (29 with +12, 32 CLL controls). Results Seven genes showing the strongest correlation with +12 in microarray analysis were selected for real-time PCR: HIP1R, MYF6, SLC2A6, CD9 (overexpressed); CD200, P2RY14, RASGRP3 (underexpressed). Four genes were significantly associated with +12: HIP1R (P<0.0001), MYF6 (P=0.007), P2RY14 (P=0.014), CD200 (P=0.028). Receiver Operating Characteristic curve analysis revealed that HIP1R expression was a highly sensitive and specific marker for +12 in CLL patients. MYF6 was exclusively expressed in normal or malignant B cells in peripheral blood but was poorly predictive for +12. As expected, a number of overexpressed genes are located on chromosome 12 (HIP1R, MYF6). Interestingly, both significantly underexpressed genes (P2RY14, CD200) reside on the long arm of chromosome 3 pointing to trans-repression in this region. CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of the molecular signature of trisomy 12 in CLL resulted in: (i) identification of a surrogate marker for PCR (HIP1R); (ii) observation of a gene dosage effect; and (iii) detection of specific underexpression of genes located on chromosome 3. These results should help to improve diagnosis and treatment decisions for patients with CLL and trisomy 12."
2964	"Altered expression of microRNAs, a new class of noncoding RNAs that regulate messenger RNA and protein expression of target genes, has been recently demonstrated to have an essential role in the process of leukaemogenesis. Distinctive patterns of activation and/or silencing of multiple microRNAs (microRNA signatures) associated with certain cytogenetic and molecular subsets of leukaemia have been identified using genome-wide high-throughput profiling assays. This has led not only to the discovery of new molecular pathways implicated in leukaemogenesis, but also supplied prognostic information complementing that gained from cytogenetics, gene mutations and altered gene expression in acute and chronic leukaemias. We review herein results of current studies analysing changes of microRNA expression in acute myeloid leukaemia and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, and discuss their potential biologic, diagnostic and prognostic relevance."
2965	"The proliferation of new techniques that allow a multiparametric study of gene expression, the mutational state of genomic DNA, DNA methylation and the phosphorylation of receptor and adaptor proteins has led to an increased understanding of the origin of different cancers, the definition of new prognosis markers and the response to treatment profiles. Gene profiling studies on chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) are at the origin of new prognosis markers such as zeta-associated protein-70 (ZAP-70), LPL and CLLU1, which, at present, are under  study for their application to clinical practice. An increased resolution in the  mutational state at genomic level has underscored the importance of deletion 13q14 at the origin of CLL and 13q and 17p in response to treatment. Some new insights regarding changes in gene expression in CLL cells depending on the microenvironment have been described, but more work is yet to be done in the field."
2966	"IGHV mutational status and ZAP-70 or CD38 expression correlate with clinical course in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The three markers may be discordant in the single case and there is no consensus on their combined use in  clinical practise. This multicenter study investigated this issue. Two-hundred and sixty-two Binet stage A patients were studied for the three markers. Sixty patients were profiled with HG-U133A gene expression chips. Disease progression was determined by time from diagnosis to treatment (TTT). The probability of being treatment-free at 3 years was significantly shorter in patients with unmutated IGHV genes (IGHVunmut 66% vs. 93%, chi square of log-rank = 30, P < 0.0001), ZAP-70 positive (ZAP-70pos 73% vs. 96%, chi square of log-rank = 8.2, P  = 0.004) or CD38-positive cells (CD38pos 68% vs. 91%, chi square of log-rank = 21, P < 0.0001). Cox multivariate regression analysis showed that the three markers had an independent predictive value for TTT of similar power. A prognostic system based on presence of none (low-risk), one (intermediate-risk) or two or three (high-risk) markers was generated. Based on such criteria, 56%, 23% and 21% of cases were clustered in low (HR = 1), intermediate [HR = 2.8, 95%  confidence interval (CI) 2.4-5.8] and high-risk group (HR = 8.0, 95% CI 3.9-16.2). Specific transcriptional patterns were significantly associated with risk groups."
2967	"Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) is an asymptomatic monoclonal expansion of  <5.0 x 10(9)/l circulating CLL-phenotype B-cells. The relationship between MBL and Rai 0 CLL, as well as the impact of biological risk factors on MBL prognosis, are unknown. Out of 460 B-cell expansions with CLL-phenotype, 123 clinical MBL (cMBL) were compared to 154 Rai 0 CLL according to clinical and biological profile and outcome. cMBL had better humoral immune capacity and lower infection  risk, lower prevalence of del11q22-q23/del17p13 and TP53 mutations, slower lymphocyte doubling time, and longer treatment-free survival. Also, cMBL diagnosis was a protective factor for treatment risk. Despite these favourable features, all cMBL were projected to progress, and lymphocytes <1.2 x 10(9)/l and >3.7 x 10(9)/l were the best thresholds predicting the lowest and highest risk of progression to CLL. Although IGHV status, CD38 and CD49d expression, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) karyotype individually predicted treatment-free survival, multivariate analysis identified the presence of +12 or  del17p13 as the sole independent predictor of treatment requirement in cMBL (Hazard ratio: 5.39, 95% confidence interval 1.98-14.44, P = 0.001). Overall, these data showed that cMBL has a more favourable clinical course than Rai 0 CLL. Given that the biological profile can predict treatment requirement, stratification based on biological prognosticators may be helpful for cMBL management."
2968	"Even in the era of newer and sophisticated prognostic markers, beta(2)-microglobulin (B2M) remains a simple but very powerful predictor of treatment-free survival (TFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with chronic  lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). However, B2M levels are heavily influenced by the patient's glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and this study aimed to evaluate whether GFR-adjusted B2M (GFR-B2M) had improved prognostic value compared to unadjusted B2M in a cohort of over 450 consecutive CLL patients from two separate institutions. Multivariate analysis identified a significantly shorter TFS in patients who were ZAP-70 + (P < 0.001), with increased GFR-B2M (P < 0.001), and del(11q) or del(17p) as detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH; P < 0.001). When OS was evaluated by multivariate analysis, age 65 years or older (P  < 0.001) and poor risk FISH abnormalities (P < 0.001) had a confirmed adverse prognostic impact, but the predictive value of GFR-B2M was lost in the validation analysis. In all survival models, B2M did not attain independent significance unless GFR-B2M was eliminated from the analysis. In conclusion, GFR-B2M is a better predictor of TFS than unadjusted B2M in CLL patients."
2969	"The effect of CMC-544, a calicheamicin-conjugated anti-CD22 monoclonal antibody,  was analysed in relation to CD22 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in vitro. The cell lines used were CD22-positive parental Daudi and Raji, and their P-gp positive sublines, Daudi/MDR and Raji/MDR. Cells obtained from 19 patients with B-cell CLL or NHL were also used. The effect of CMC-544 was analysed by viable cell count, morphology, annexin-V staining, and cell cycle distribution. A dose-dependent, selective cytotoxic effect of CMC-544 was observed in cell lines that expressed CD22. CMC-544 was not effective on Daudi/MDR and Raji/MDR cells compared with their parental cells. The MDR modifiers, PSC833 and MS209, restored the cytotoxic effect of CMC-544 in P-gp-expressing sublines. In clinical samples, the cytotoxic effect of CMC-544 was inversely related to the amount of P-gp (P = 0.003), and to intracellular rhodamine-123 accumulation (P < 0.001). On the other hand, the effect positively correlated with the amount of CD22 (P = 0.010). The effect of CMC-544 depends on the levels of CD22 and P-gp. Our findings will help to predict the clinical effectiveness of this drug on these B-cell malignancies, suggesting  a beneficial effect with combined use of CMC-544 and MDR modifiers."
2970	"BACKGROUND: Herpes virus infections may have a significant role in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) due to their ability to modulate the host's immune system. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined the seroprevalence of four herpes viruses [Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV), human herpes virus (HHV)-6 and  -7] in a cohort of European CLL patients (cohort 1, n = 100) in relation to the immunoglobulin variable heavy (IGHV) chain gene use and compared serological results with those obtained from age- and gender-matched healthy adults (n = 100). RESULTS: CMV-seroprevalence was significantly higher in CLL cohort 1 (79%) than in the control cohort (57%, P = 0.001); the seroprevalence of EBV (89% vs. 94%),  HHV-6 (73% vs. 60%), or HHV-7 (35% vs. 35%) was not. In CLL cohort 1, use of IGHV3-30 was more prevalent among CMV-seropositive and of IGHV3-21 among HHV-7-seronegative cases. To investigate the generalizability of these findings,  we investigated the herpes virus seroprevalence in a second cohort of age-matched CLL patients from a different geographical area (USA, n = 100, cohort 2). In cohort 2, CMV-seroprevalence was comparable with that of the control cohort (53%). Seroprevalence of EBV, HHV-6 and HHV-7 were 85%, 88% and 73% respectively. In CLL cohort 2, use of IGHV3-30 or IGHV3-21 was not associated with any of the herpes viruses investigated. CONCLUSIONS: CMV-seropositivity is associated with CLL in selected patient cohorts. However, the considerable variation in herpes virus-specific seropositivity between geographically distinct CLL cohorts indicates that seropositivity for any of the four human herpes viruses investigated is not generally associated with CLL."
2971	"This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the  clinical and cost-effectiveness of fludarabine phosphate or fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide for the first-line treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia,based upon the evidence submission from Schering Health Care (SHC) to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process.The submission was of good quality with no major errors or omissions in the clinical evidence.Two published studies and seven abstracts were included in the company submission, which showed improvements in overall response and progression-free survival (PFS) and a higher complete response rate in the fludarabine containing arms; however, until the complete data are made available for evaluation these results must be interpreted with caution. The manufacturer's decision-analytic Markov model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of treatment with fludarabine monotherapy, fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide and chlorambucil was considered to be the most relevant source for informing this STA;it was appropriate for the decision problem and the data sources used to inform the model were appropriate from a UK NHS perspective.The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide compared with chlorambucil from the revised model presented in the manufacturer's addendum was pounds 3244 per additional quality-adjusted life-year.The results were robust to a range of subgroup and sensitivity analyses. Additional sensitivity and survival analyses were carried by the ERG to investigate possible bias in the results. This brought into question the validity of the assumptions underpinning the extrapolation of data over a lifetime time horizon and showed that the ICER estimates submitted by the manufacturer were notcalculated correctly and uncertainty surrounding the decision problems was not expressed fully.Based on these analyses the ERG suggests that further evidence is needed to enable an accurate assessment to be made of the clinical and cost effectiveness of fludarabine as first-line treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. The guidance issued by NICE in December 2006 as a result of the STA states that fludarabine monotherapy,within its licensed indication, is not recommended for the first-line treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia; no recommendations have been made with respect to fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide combination therapy because the current marketing authorisation does not specifically provide a recommendation that fludarabine should be used concurrently with other drugs for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia."
2972	"The majority of patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) will  ultimately die of their disease. Stem cell transplantation (SCT) remains the only treatment modality capable of cure, but has traditionally been associated with very high morbidity and mortality. We review the results of myeloablative autologous and allogeneic SCT in CLL, discuss the evolution of the new non-myeloablative approaches, and make recommendations for when SCT should be considered in patients with CLL."
2973	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is a heterogeneous disease with some patients having an indolent course never needs treatment, while others having rapidly progressive one requires intensive treatment. In recent decades, numerous prognostic markers, such as immunoglobulin variable region heavy-chain (IgVH) mutational status, ZAP-70 and the expression of CD38 on leukaemic cells were introduced to screen for patients likely to have progressive course of B-CLL bearing the potential to facilitate risk-adapted treatment strategies. In B-CLL,  T cell function is shown to be dysregulated. CD38 has been demonstrated to be an  important transmembrane signalling molecule of T cell with a direct effect on its function. The present study was conducted to analyse CD38 expression on T cells by flow cytometry to evaluate its impact on the clinical course of 88 unselected  B-CLL patients and correlate it with other risk factors. CD38 expression level on T cells was shown to predict the clinical course of B-CLL in male patients but not in female patients. Male patients showed CD38 expression on T cells in a stage-dependent manner, in contrast to female patients who showed higher expression irrespective to clinical staging. CD38 expression on T cells negatively interacted with treatment-free survival in male patients. Multivariate analysis revealed that CD38 expression level on T cells is an independent prognostic factor in B-CLL male patients. Simultaneous evaluation of CD38 expression on both B-CLL cells and T cells allowed predicting male patient groups with the most favourable prognosis as well as those with the worst."
2974	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) shows cutaneous involvement in 2% of cases. Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare primary cutaneous epithelial neoplasm most  commonly found in sun-exposed sites in elderly male Caucasians. A 66-year-old man presented with a 2-month history of a purple painless 2 cm tumor on the scalp. Excision biopsy revealed an incompletely excised MCC, and at the periphery of the MCC, a lymphocytic infiltrate interpreted as reactive. A re-excision biopsy showed residual MCC as well as dense aggregates of small lymphocytes within and surrounding the MCC. Immunohistochemistry showed characteristic dot-like cytoplasmic positivity for cytokeratin 20 in the MCC; the lymphocytic infiltrate  was positive for CD5, CD20 and CD23, diagnostic of CLL. Subsequent staging revealed widespread lymphadenopathy, and lymph node biopsy showed CLL. Histologically, CLL and MCC are 'round blue cell tumors' and are therefore in the differential diagnoses of each other. Whenever there is a more prominent than expected infiltrate of small lymphocytes surrounding a skin lesion in an elderly  patient, immunohistochemistry to rule out CLL is advised. This case adds to the literature suggesting an increased incidence of CLL and other neoplasms in patients with MCC and vice versa."
2975	"The survivors of the atomic bombings in Hiroshima and Nagasaki are a general population of all ages and sexes and, because of the wide and well characterised  range of doses received, have been used by many scientific committees (International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP), United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR), Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiations (BEIR)) as the basis of population cancer risk estimates following radiation exposure. Leukaemia was the first cancer to be associated with atomic bomb radiation exposure, with preliminary indications of an excess among the survivors within the first five years after the bombings. An  excess of solid cancers became apparent approximately ten years after radiation exposure. With increasing follow-up, excess risks of most cancer types have been  observed, the major exceptions being chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, and pancreatic, prostate and uterine cancer. For most solid cancer sites a linear dose response is observed, although in the latest follow-up of the mortality data there is evidence (p = 0.10) for an upward curvature in the dose response for all solid cancers. The only cancer sites which exhibit (upward) curvature in the dose response are leukaemia, and non-melanoma skin and bone cancer. For leukaemia the  dose response is very markedly upward curving, indeed largely describable as a pure quadratic dose response, particularly in the low dose (0-2 Sv) range. Even 55 years after the bombings over 40% of the Life Span Study cohort remain alive,  so continued follow-up of this group is vital for completing our understanding of long-term radiation effects in people. In general, the relative risks per unit dose among the Japanese atomic bomb survivors are greater than those among comparable subsets in studies of medically exposed individuals. Cell sterilisation largely accounts for the discrepancy in relative risks between these two populations, although other factors may contribute, such as the generally higher underlying cancer risks in the medical series than in the Japanese atomic bomb survivors. Risks among occupationally exposed groups such as nuclear workforces and underground miners are generally consistent with those observed in the Japanese atomic bomb survivors. In general, consistent patterns of variation of risk with age at exposure are also seen in all studies-risks for  all cancer types diminish with increasing age at exposure. There are also excess  risks of various types of non-malignant disease in the Japanese atomic bomb survivors, in particular cardiovascular, respiratory and digestive diseases. Indeed, risks are elevated to much the same degree for a number of non-malignant  disease endpoints, suggestive of bias. However, in contrast with the cancer data, there is much less consistency in the pattern of risk between the atomic bomb survivors and other exposed groups; for example, radiation-associated respiratory and digestive diseases have not been seen in these other groups. Although cardiovascular risks have been seen elsewhere, particularly in medically exposed  groups, in contrast with the cancer data there is much less consistency in risk between studies: risks per unit dose in epidemiological studies vary over at least two orders of magnitude, possibly as a result of confounding factors. In the absence of a convincing mechanistic explanation of epidemiological evidence,  at present a cause-and-effect interpretation of the reported statistical associations for cardiovascular disease is unreliable but cannot be excluded. Further epidemiological and biological evidence will allow a firmer conclusion to be drawn."
2976	"We previously demonstrated that dendritic cells (DC) that have endocytosed apoptotic bodies of autologous leukemic cells (Apo-DC) can boost antileukemic T-cell responses. In this study, we report a description of the production procedure and product specification of the Apo-DC vaccine preparations for clinical use. Enriched populations of CD14+ monocytic precursors and CD19+ leukaemic cells were obtained using CliniMACS technology from a single leukapheresis product. Apoptotic bodies were obtained by irradiating (5 Gy) CD19+ selected B cells. DC were generated ex vivo by culturing monocytes with granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-4. Following coculture with apoptotic bodies, DCs were matured with tumour necrosis factor-alpha. The mean percentage of CD14+ cells in the peripheral blood as well  as in the leukapheresis product of the patients (n = 10) was approximately 2% (range, 0.8-3.3). Immunomagnetic selection using the CD14 reagent yielded a CD14+ population that was 91 +/- 2.2% (mean +/- SEM) pure. Immunomagnetic selection of  CD19 expressing cells yielded a population that was 100 +/- 0.03% pure. Cell viability immediately after selection was 97% and 98% after 7 days of culture. The Apo-DC cellular vaccine product showed a mature phenotype, with a high rate of endocytosis (84%) of apoptotic leukemic B-cells. In conclusion, despite significant variability in the circulating monocyte frequency of the chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients, our method permitted the production of a DC vaccine with high reproducibility and conforming with recommended quality standards."
2977	"In human B cells, effective major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-antigen presentation depends not only on MHC class II, but also on the invariant chain (CD74 or Ii), HLA-DM (DM) and HLA-DO (DO), the chaperones regulating the antigen loading process of MHC class II molecules. We analysed immediate ex vivo expression of HLA-DR (DR), CD74, DM and DO in B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction demonstrated a highly significant upregulation of DRA, CD74, DMB, DOA and DOB mRNA in purified malignant cells compared to B cells from healthy donors. The increased mRNA levels were not translated into enhanced protein levels but could reflect aberrant transcriptional regulation. Indeed, upregulation of DRA, DMB, DOA and DOB mRNA correlated with enhanced expression of class II transactivator (CIITA). In-depth analysis of the various CIITA transcripts demonstrated a significant increased activity of the interferon-gamma-inducible promoter CIITA-PIV in B-CLL. Comparison of the aberrant mRNA levels with clinical outcome identified DOA mRNA as a prognostic indicator for survival. Multivariate  analysis revealed that the prognostic value of DOA mRNA was independent of the mutational status of the IGHV genes. Thus, aberrant transcription of DOA forms a  novel and additional prognostic indicator for survival in B-CLL."
2979	"Malignant B-cells from most chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients over-express MDR1 encoded P-glycoprotein (P-gp) multidrug efflux pump. Inhibition of glucosylceramide (GC) synthesis has been shown in cell lines to correlate with the expression and function of P-gp and sensitise cancer cells to cytotoxic agents. We investigated the hypothesis that reducing intracellular GC levels will reduce P-gp expression in malignant cells from CLL patients. We studied the ability of glucosylceramide synthase (GCS) inhibitors N-butyl-deoxygalactonojirimycin (OGB-1) and N-nonyl-deoxygalactonojirimycin (OGB-2) to sensitise CLL cells to conventional cytotoxic drug 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (CdA) and the cytostatic drugs chlorambucil and fludarabine. The effect on P-gp activity was analysed using the calcein-AM accumulation assay where a multidrug activity factor (MAF) of >10 in the presence of a P-gp inhibitor denotes P-gp functional activity. The P-gp over-expressing cell line CEM-VLB showed a MAF value of 96.4 with the P-gp inhibitor Z.3HCL, which fell to 15.7 after co-incubation with OGB-1 and 45.9 with OGB-2. The IC(50) for vincristine fell from >10 microg/ml to 55.5 ng/ml in the presence of OGB-2. In P-gp(+ve) peripheral blood mononuclear cells from three normal volunteers, the mean MAF values for Z.3HCL, OGB-1 and OGB-2 were 23.86, 1.83 and 16.2 respectively. In 9/13 CLL samples the mean P-gp functional activity was 22.15 and P-gp was over-expressed in 12/13 samples. However, the MAF value with OGB-1 and OGB-2 was <10. Nevertheless, sensitisation in CLL cells was observed by a reduction in the IC(50) in the presence of OGB-1 and OGB-2 with the conventional  drugs. We conclude that although GCS inhibitors sensitize CLL cells to cytotoxic  and cytostatic drugs, they do not appear to have any effect on P-gp functional activity."
2980	"Autoimmune haemolysis or thrombocytopenia can complicate purine nucleoside monotherapy for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), but Evans syndrome is rare.  This is a report of the occurrence of pancytopenia secondary to a unique combination of red cell aplasia with autoimmune thrombocytopenia and neutropenia  in a patient with CLL following treatment with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide.  This case is unusual for the simultaneous targeting of three haemopoietic lineages by immune dysfunction following fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, which  is a treatment regimen believed to reduce autoimmune haematological toxicity in CLL."
2981	"Zeta-chain-associated protein (ZAP-70) and spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) are structurally and functionally homologous tyrosine kinases playing a role in the T- and B-cell signal transduction. Their activation can lead to lymphokine production, cytolitic activity, antibody secretion, cell proliferation, differentiation, survival and phagocytosis. Anomalous ZAP-70 and Syk expression is reported to be related to tumor formation and progression, and ZAP-70 immunoreactivity is a good prognostic marker of disease progression in human chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Until now, to our knowledge, there are no reports about canine ZAP-70 and Syk expression profiles. In the present study, a  RT-PCR procedure for the quali-quantitative evaluation of canine ZAP-70 and Syk transcripts was designed. The expression patterns of canine ZAP-70 and Syk mRNAs  were evaluated in canine leukocyte subpopulations and in peripheral whole blood samples from healthy dogs and from dogs with different types of leukaemia. Similarly to humans, normal canine CD4+ and CD8+ T cells showed high expression of ZAP-70, whereas Syk was abundantly expressed in normal CD21+ B cells. The expression profile of ZAP-70 and Syk was markedly different in canine normal and  leukaemic blood. Decreased Syk expression was detected in dogs with T-cell CLL, whereas decreased ZAP-70 expression was detected in dogs with B-cell CLL and B-cell acute lymphocytic leukaemia (ALL). The comparison of ZAP-70 and Syk mRNA levels between normal and leukaemic peripheral whole blood showed that the expression ratio ZAP-70/Syk is subjected to modification depending on the leukaemia status of patients. The results of the present work open an interesting topic for leukaemogenesis investigation and are the basis for further studies for a proper evaluation of the potential utility of these parameters for the diagnosis and prognosis of canine T- and B-cell leukaemia."
2983	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a neoplastic condition of B cells which commonly affects the lymph nodes, liver, spleen and bone marrow. Leukaemic involvement of the kidney is also relatively common in CLL, but characteristically is not associated with renal impairment. Our report describes  a patient who developed acute renal failure as the initial presenting feature of  CLL. The renal failure was subsequently found to be due to direct leukaemic infiltration. Treatment with chlorambucil and prednisolone resulted in stabilisation of the renal function for approximately 1 year prior to the need for long-term haemodialysis. Leukaemic infiltration of kidney should always be considered when a patient with CLL presents with renal impairment, regardless of  the clinical stage, as the renal failure often responds well to chemotherapy."
2984	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), the commonest form of leukaemia in adults in Western countries, is a genetically heterogeneous disease. The most frequent genetic alterations are deletions in 13q14, 17p13 (TP53) and 11q22-q23 (ATM), and trisomy of chromosome 12. Furthermore, additional alterations have been described. The most relevant techniques used for detection of genetic alterations in CLL include comparative genomic hybridisation (CGH) and fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH). Recently, PCR-based techniques, such as multiplex ligation- dependent probe amplification (MLPA), have been used to detect genetic alterations in CLL. This review summarises the genetic alterations described in CLL and the techniques used for their detection."
2985	"BACKGROUND: To examine the association between occupation and leukaemia. METHODS: We interviewed 225 cases (aged 20-75 years) notified to the New Zealand  Cancer Registry during 2003-04, and 471 controls randomly selected from the Electoral Roll collecting demographic details, information on potential confounders and a comprehensive employment history. Associations between occupation and leukaemia were analysed using logistic regression adjusted for gender, age, ethnicity and smoking. RESULTS: Elevated odds ratios (ORs) were observed in agricultural sectors including horticulture/fruit growing (OR: 2.62, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.51, 4.55), plant nurseries (OR: 7.51, 95% CI: 1.85, 30.38) and vegetable growing (OR: 3.14, 95% CI: 1.18, 8.40); and appeared greater in women (ORs: 4.71, 7.75 and 7.98, respectively). Elevated ORs were also observed in market farmers/crop growers (OR: 1.84, 95% CI: 1.12, 3.02), field crop/vegetable growers (OR: 3.98, 95% CI: 1.46, 10.85), market gardeners (OR: 5.50, 95% CI: 1.59, 19.02), and nursery growers/workers (OR: 4.23, 95% CI: 1.34, 13.35); also greater in women (ORs: 3.48, 7.62, 15.74 and 11.70, respectively). These elevated ORs were predominantly for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Several associations  persisted after semi-Bayes adjustment. Elevated ORs were observed in rubber/plastics products machine operators (OR: 3.76, 95% CI: 1.08, 13.08), predominantly in plastic product manufacturing. CLL was also elevated in tailors  and dressmakers (OR: 7.01, 95% CI: 1.78, 27.68), cleaners (OR: 2.04, 95% CI: 1.00, 4.14) and builder's labourers (OR: 4.03, 95% CI: 1.30, 12.53). CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest increased leukaemia risks associated with certain agricultural, manufacturing, construction and service occupations in New  Zealand."
2988	"The humanized anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab belongs to the family of  Campath-1 antibodies, which were initially developed for their ability to prevent graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and graft rejection in stem cell transplantation. Alemtuzumab is indicated for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and has demonstrated considerable activity in relapsed/refractory disease and in previously untreated disease. It has been shown to induce minimal residual disease-negative responses as a single agent or  as part of consolidation therapy in a meaningful proportion of patients with CLL  and has shown promising activity in patients with high-risk cytogenetic markers.  Alemtuzumab may also have significant activity in T-cell malignancies, such as mycosis fungoides and T-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia. Recent studies also have evaluated alemtuzumab as part of a conditioning regimen to prevent GVHD in stem cell transplantation. This article reviews our current understanding of alemtuzumab and discusses its emerging role in the treatment of CLL and other haematological malignancies."
2989	"Antibody-based therapies, such as rituximab and alemtuzumab, have contributed significantly to the treatment of Chronic Lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The CD40 antigen is expressed predominantly on B-cells and represents a potential target for immune-based therapies. SGN-40 is a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody currently in Phase I/II clinical trials for indolent lymphomas, diffuse large B cell lymphomas and Multiple Myeloma. Its biological effect on CLL cells has not been studied. The present study demonstrated that SGN-40 mediated modest apoptosis in a subset of patients with secondary cross-linking but did not mediate complement-dependent cytotoxicity. SGN-40 also mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) predominantly through natural killer (NK) cells. Previous studies by our group and others have demonstrated that lenalidomide upregulates CD40 expression on primary B CLL cells and activates NK-cells. We therefore examined for the combinatorial effect of lenalidomide and SGN-40 and demonstrated that both enhanced direct apoptosis and  ADCC against primary CLL B cells. These data together provide justification for clinical trials of SGN-40 and lenalidomide in combination for CLL therapy."
2990	"Early chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is an ideal disease for immunotherapy.  We previously showed that SEMG 1 is a cancer-testis (CT) antigen in CLL. In this  study, SEMG 1 was applied as the bait in a yeast two-hybrid system of a testicular cDNA library. Seven clones were isolated and Protamine (Prm) 1 was identified as a novel CT antigen in early CLL. PRM1 transcripts were detected in  11/41 (26.8%) patients. Prm 1 protein was also expressed but heterogeneously within individual patients. Of the 11 patients expressing Prm 1, four expressed Zap 70 protein and seven did not. These results, therefore, indicate that Prm 1 could potentially be a suitable target for the design of tumour vaccine for patients with early CLL, including for those with poor risk CLL. High titres of Prm 1 IgG antibodies could be detected in 20 of these 41 CLL patients but not in  any of the 20 healthy donors (P = 0.0001), suggesting the presence of Prm 1-reactive immune responses within the immune repertoire of patients with early CLL. Further work is warranted, especially in approaches to upregulate Prm 1 expression, and to determine the role of Prm 1 as an immunotherapeutic target for early CLL."
2991	"Richter syndrome (RS) represents the clinico-pathologic transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) to an aggressive lymphoma, most commonly diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The clinical definition of RS is heterogeneous, and encompasses at least two biologically different conditions: (i) CLL transformation to a clonally related DLBCL, that accounts for the majority of cases; (ii) development of a DLBCL unrelated to the CLL clone. In clonally related RS, the pathogenetic link between the CLL and the DLBCL phases is substantiated by the acquisition of novel molecular lesions at the time of clinico-pathologic transformation. RS is not a rare event in the natural history  of CLL, since the cumulative incidence of RS at 10 years exceeds 10%. Prompt recognition of RS is known to be clinically useful, and may be favoured by close  monitoring of CLL patients harbouring clinical and/or biological risk factors of  RS development. Conventional risk factors that are independent predictors of RS development at the time of CLL diagnosis include: (i) expression of CD38; (ii) absence of del13q14 and (iii) lymph node size > or =3 cm. Other risk factors of RS development include CD38 genotype and usage of specific immunoglobulin variable genes. The molecular pathogenesis of RS has been elucidated to a certain extent. Acquisition of TP53 mutations and/or 17p13 deletion is a frequent molecular event in RS, as it is in other types of transformation from indolent to aggressive B-cell malignancies. Additional molecular alterations are being revealed by genome wide studies. Once that transformation has occurred, RS prognosis may be predicted by the RS score, based on performance status, LDH, platelet count, tumour size and number of prior therapies. Depending on patient's age and RS score, the therapeutic options for RS may range from conventional immunochemotherapy to allogeneic bone marrow transplantation."
2993	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia remains the most common adult leukaemia in Western  countries. In this review we tried to give an overview of the important prognostic markers and the developments in this field. We also reflected about the accumulative character of the disease and the influence of the micro-environment on the CLL cell."
2994	"A fraction of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cases carry highly homologous B-cell receptors (BCR), i.e. characterized by non-random combinations of immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) genes and heavy-chain complementarity  determining region-3 (HCDR3), often associated with a restricted selection of IGVK/L light chains. Such 'stereotyped' BCR occur more frequently in CLL with unmutated (UM) than mutated (M) IGHV genes. We analysed 1426 IG rearrangements (from 1398 CLL cases) by a clustering driven by HCDR3 similarities. Molecular findings were correlated to time-to-treatment (TTT) and presence of known prognosticators. Sixty-nine clusters (319 IG-rearrangements, 22.4%) with stereotyped BCR were identified. Among 30 confirmed clusters (>or=3 IG-rearrangements/cluster), we found 14 novel clusters, of which 11 had M IG rearrangements (M clusters) and predominantly (8/11) used IGHV3 subgroup genes. Recurrent cluster-biased amino acid changes were found throughout IGHV sequences  of these 'M clusters'. Regarding clinical outcome: (i) UM CLL from the IGHV1-2/1-3/1-18/1-46/7-4-1/IGKV1-39 cluster had poorer prognosis than UM/M cases, or UM cases using the same IGHV genes but not in clusters; (ii) M CLL from the IGHV3-21/IGLV3-21 cluster had TTT similar to UM CLL, and shorter than M CLL expressing IGHV3-21 but not in cluster. Altogether, our analysis identified additional molecular and clinical features for CLL expressing stereotyped BCR."
2995	"Mature B-cells can recognize microbial antigens via B-cell-receptor (BCR) in a specific way and via Toll-like receptors (TLR) in a costimulatory manner. A wealth of information is gathering on the possible role of antigenic stimulation  in the natural history of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL). However little is  known regarding the repertoire and function of TLR in CLL cells. The TLR family includes 10 different transmembrane proteins devoted to recognize specific pathogen-associated molecular patterns and to alarm immunocompetent cells to trigger an immune response. Here, we studied fresh leukaemic cells for the expression pattern of TLR1 to TLR10, NOD1, NOD2 and SIGIRR (also known as TIR8).  CLL cells were found to express several pattern recognition receptors including TLR1, TLR2, TLR6, TLR10, NOD1 and NOD2. The specific TLR expressed by CLL cells were functional. Leukaemic cells, upon stimulation with TLR1/2/6 ligands, such as bacterial lipopeptides, activated the nuclear factor-kappaB signalling pathway, expressed CD86 and CD25 activation molecules, and were protected from spontaneous apoptosis. These findings further support the hypothesis that CLL cells resemble  antigen-activated B-cells and suggest a potential role of TLR in modulating CLL cell response in the context of specific antigen recognition."
2996	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of adult leukemia in the Western countries, however, infrequent in the Eastern. It shows a remarkable heterogeneity, with some patients having an almost normal lifespan, others surviving only several years after diagnosis despite intensive therapy. To explore the prognostic significance of CD38 expression in Chinese patients with CLL, multi-parameter flow cytometry was used to detect the expression of CD38 on  CD5(+)CD19(+) cells of 147 patients. CD38 expression and its association with some other prognostic factors such as Binet stage, lymphocyte count in peripheral blood, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG), ZAP-70  expression and cytogenetic abnormalities were analyzed. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to construct survival curves, and results were compared using the log-rank test. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were used to assess associations between survival time and potential risk factors. Out of the  147 CLL patients, positive expression of CD38 was found in 45 (30.6%) cases. CD38-positivity identified a subgroup of CLL patients with aggressive disease of  Binet stage at the time of the test (P=0.036). Furthermore, the presence of higher serum LDH and beta2-MG levels at diagnosis was strongly correlated with CD38-positive (P=0.016 and 0.025, respectively). Prognostically unfavorable cytogenetic abnormalities, including 17p13 and 11q22 deletions, were significantly more frequent in CD38-positive patients than in CD38-negative ones  (P=0.047 and 0.001, respectively). There was no significant difference between CD38-positive and CD38-negative groups in molecular cytogenetic aberrations of del(6q23), del(13q14), 14q32 translocation, or trisomy 12. In addition, in CD38-positive patients, the percentage of leukemic cells expressing ZAP-70 protein was not significantly higher than in CD38-negative ones (P=0.120). CD38 expression was associated with poor outcome. Patients with positive expression of CD38 had significantly shorter overall survival (mean, 81 months) than patients without CD38 expression (mean, 179 months) (P=0.015). Univariate analysis showed  that serum levels of LDH and beta2-MG, del(17p13) and CD38 expression were the significant factors in determining overall survival (OS). Del(17p13) and CD38 expression were the variables strongly associated with OS by multivariate Cox regression analysis. It was showed that the patients with high level of CD38 expression had poorer outcome; CD38 was a good predictor of OS in Chinese patients with CLL."
2997	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a common disorder. Patients typically present with lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly and marked lymphocytosis (often >100 000/μl). Although pulmonary involvement from CLL can be found in more than one third of patients on autopsy, respiratory symptoms caused by the disease itself are not often reported. Pulmonary involvement mainly includes parenchymal infiltrates, peribronchial and perivascular infiltration, recurrent bacterial pneumonia, oedema or infarction, pleural effusions, and lymphadenopathy. Occasionally, patients may present with dry cough and progressive dyspnoea, even  with low peripheral white blood cell count. We report a case of CLL and dyspnoea  at rest, predominant "tree-in-bud" sign on chest computed tomography scan, and biopsy proven bronchiolar infiltration with monoclonal lymphocytes. With bronchoalveolar lavage alone, the diagnosis would have been missed. Chemotherapy  with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, and fludarabinphosphate led to a prompt clinical and radiological improvement with a gain in 6 min walking distance from  60 to 210 m."
2998	"A 58-year-old man with 10 year history of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) presented with a bulging mass (3.2×1.6×1.5 cm) in the right anterior abdominal wall. On microscopic examination the mass was found to be an epithelial neoplasm  in the background of lymphoid proliferation. The epithelial cells were of moderate size, with scant cytoplasm and round nuclei, forming glandular, alveolar or sheet-like structures. These cells were immunoreactive for cytokeratin 20, chromogranin and synaptophysin. The above findings supported a diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC). The background small lymphocytes expressed phenotypic markers of B cells (CD20) and CD5, consistent with his known diagnosis of CLL. The incidence of a patient with a known history of CLL who develops a secondary MCC is rare. This is believed to be the second case report of a single  lesion containing CLL and MCC."
2999	"Alemtuzumab has shown considerable activity in untreated and relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. We report our long-term experience in 21 patients within a randomized phase III trial investigating the role of alemtuzumab for consolidation therapy after first-line fludarabine +/- cyclophosphamide, which was stopped prematurely due to severe infections. However, after a median follow-up of 48 months, progression-free survival was significantly prolonged for patients receiving alemtuzumab consolidation compared to those with no further treatment (P = 0.004). Minimal residual disease (MRD) levels were persistently reduced after consolidation. Therefore, despite toxicity, MRD reduction by alemtuzumab consolidation translates into a significantly improved long-term clinical outcome."
3000	"This phase II study (n = 20) aimed to evaluate type, severity and duration of side-effects and efficacy following subcutaneous (SC) alemtuzumab, without dose-escalation, in advanced-stage relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients. Alemtuzumab 30 and 3 mg was administered SC simultaneously day 1, followed by 30 mg three times per week. Injection-site-reactions were recorded every 6-24 h until resolved using National Cancer Institute criteria and a new skin toxicity subscale. The first doses of 30 mg and 3 mg produced injection-site-reactions (all but one were grade 1/2) in 13/20 and 9/20 patients, respectively. The second dose (on day 3) resulted in skin-reactions in 10/20 patients and the third, fourth, fifth and sixth injections produced reactions in  6/20, 1/20, 2/20 and 0/20 patients, respectively. Mild "flu-like" symptoms occurred during week 1 in 10/20 patients. All side-effects had subsided by the sixth dose. 15/20 patients (75%) responded (12 partial responses, three complete  responses) with a median time-to-treatment-failure of 20 months. Symptomatic cytomegalovirus-reactivation occurred in 6/20 patients. Two deaths occurred: one  bacterial pneumonia and one adenovirus-infection. The present study showed how to assess cutaneous-toxicity in detail and that 30 mg alemtuzumab SC administered upfront was well tolerated. Optimized alemtuzumab therapy in properly selected patients may result in high efficacy even in advanced CLL. Our results need to be confirmed in extended studies."
3002	"The measurement of immunoglobulin serum free light chains (sFLC) has prognostic significance in plasma cell dyscrasias but its role in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is unknown. This retrospective study from three UK hospitals analysed sFLC in 181 untreated/pre-treatment CLL patients and 78 treated CLL patients, with samples taken later in their disease. An abnormal sFLC ratio was significantly associated with poor overall survival for the 181 untreated/pre-treatment patients (P = 0.0001) and for all patients (P = 0.002), irrespective of cause of death. Using multivariate analysis (n = 194), four independent prognostic variables for overall survival were identified namely Zap-70 (P = 0.0001), beta2M (P = 0.01), IGHV mutation status (P = 0.017) and an abnormal sFLC ratio (P = 0.024). For CLL patients with unmutated IGHV genes, elevated kappa/lambda ratios were adversely prognostic. For patients with mutated IGHV genes, reduced kappa/lambda ratios were adversely prognostic and associated  with the poor prognostic IGHV3-21, IGHV3-48 and IGHV3-53 subgroups, suggesting an abnormal sFLC ratio may reflect biological subgroups within CLL. Abnormal sFLC ratios need to be studied prospectively in CLL patients and the biological rationale for their abnormality investigated."
3003	"Resistance to chemotherapy and drug toxicity are two major concerns of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) treatment by purine nucleoside analogues (PNA, i.e. fludarabine and cladribine). We hypothesized that targeting epigenetic changes might address these issues and evaluated the effect of the histone deacetylase inhibitor valproate (VPA) at a clinically relevant concentration. VPA acted in a  highly synergistic/additive manner with fludarabine and cladribine to induce apoptosis of B-CLL cells. Importantly, VPA also restored sensitivity to fludarabine in B cells from poor prognosis CLL patients who became resistant to chemotherapy. Mechanism of apoptosis induced by VPA alone or combined with fludarabine or to cladribine was caspase-dependent and involved the extrinsic pathway. VPA, but neither fludarabine nor cladribine, enhanced the production of  reactive oxygen species (ROS) and inhibition of ROS with N-acetylcysteine decreases apoptosis of CLL cells. VPA stimulates hyperphosphorylation of p42/p44  ERK, cytochrome c release and overexpression of Bax and Fas. Together, our data indicate that VPA may ameliorate the outcome of PNA-based therapeutic protocols and provide a potential alternative treatment in both the relapsed and front-line resistant patients and in patients with high risk features."
3005	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the most common adult leukaemia in Europe  and North America. The disease is characterized by proliferation and accumulation of small CD5+ B cells in blood, lymph nodes, spleen, liver and bone marrow. The natural clinical course of CLL is highly variable, and chemotherapy is usually not indicated in early and stable disease. However, patients with progressive and more advanced CLL require treatment. For many years, chlorambucil with or without corticosteroids was used in previously untreated patients with CLL. More recently, purine nucleoside analogues (PNAs) [fludarabine, cladribine and pentostatin] have been included in treatment approaches for this disease, and chlorambucil is no longer the leading standard everywhere. Currently, this drug is rather recommended for the treatment of older, unfit patients with co-morbidities, especially in European countries. Significantly higher overall response (OR) and complete response (CR) rates in patients treated initially with PNAs than in those treated with chlorambucil or cyclophosphamide-based combination regimens have been confirmed in randomized, prospective, multicentre  trials. Moreover, PNAs administered in combination with cyclophosphamide produce  higher response rates, including CR and molecular CR, compared with PNA as monotherapy. Recent reports suggest that the administration of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) can significantly improve the course of CLL. At present, two mAbs have the most important clinical value in patients with CLL. The first is rituximab, a human mouse antibody that targets CD20 antigens, and the second is alemtuzumab, a humanized form of a rat antibody active against CD52. Several recent reports suggest that in patients with CLL, rituximab combined with a PNA can increase the OR and CR rates compared with PNA or rituximab alone, with acceptable toxicity. In randomized trials, the combination of rituximab with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC-R regimen) demonstrated higher rates of OR,  CR and progression-free survival in patients with previously untreated and relapsed or refractory CLL than fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC regimen). Several reports have confirmed significant activity with alemtuzumab in relapsed  or refractory CLL, as well as in previously untreated patients. Recently, several new agents have been investigated and have shown promise in treating patients with CLL. These treatments include new mAbs, agents targeting the antiapoptotic bcl-2 family of proteins and receptors involved in mediating survival signals from the microenvironment, antisense oligonucleotides and other agents. The most  promising are new mAbs directed against the CD20 molecule, lumiliximab and anti-CD40 mAbs. Oblimersen, alvocidib (flavopiridol) and lenalidomide are also being evaluated both in preclinical studies and in early clinical trials. In recent years, a significant improvement in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) procedures in patients with high-risk CLL has been observed. However, the exact role of HSCT, autologous or allogeneic, in the standard management of CLL patients is still undefined."
3006	"Over the past 5 years, lenalidomide (Revlimid, Celgene Co., Summit, NJ, USA), a member of a class of drugs termed immunomodulatory drugs, has emerged as a significant weapon in the arsenal of cancer-therapeutics. It is a lead therapeutic in multiple myeloma and del-5q myelodysplastic syndromes and has also been trialed for acute leukaemia and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma, T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, prostate cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, malignant melanoma, renal cancer, advanced ovarian and peritoneal carcinoma. The most significant development for lenalidomide has been its FDA approval (US and Europe) for previously treated multiple myeloma in  combination with dexamethasone. The following review describes key clinical and mechanistic breakthroughs that have made lenalidomide a leading cancer therapeutic."
3007	"Due to their high levels of achievement and efficiency, image digitalization and  teletransmission tools are more and more frequently used. Applied to cellular haematology, these tools often contribute to diagnosis confrontation, sometimes within the framework of therapeutic trials. We present one of the first approaches of the use of telehaematology for the inclusion of patients in the GOELAMS chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 98 trial. The advantages were (1) the creation of a unique, protected, stable data bank that could be remotely consulted, (2) the use of digitized pictures which made expertise on identical documents possible, (3) the facility of computer exchanges between experts, in terms of reception as well as replying time delays. We were able to set out new standards of image sampling for CLL, solve the semantic divergences, and point out interobserver variability as regards morphology. The limiting factors were the important need for expert investment, but they more importantly concerned the first line morphologists who should benefit from adequate tools, in terms of computer equipment as well as members of staff, so as to apprehend this second reading system as a quality control procedure."
3008	"There is a major evolution in progress in the first-line therapy of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Several recent, large, clinical trials have documented superior outcomes with fludarabine-based therapy compared with treatment with alkylating agents. Monoclonal antibodies, especially rituximab, are establishing  an important role for targeted treatment. It is expected that chemoimmunotherapy  will become the preferred treatment for many patients in the near future. Specific challenges remain to be answered, however, especially the optimal treatment for the elderly, patients with autoimmune haemolysis and those with P53 deletions and mutations."
3010	"OBJECTIVE: To report a case of Richter's syndrome found in one of the teaching hospitals in Nigeria in the context of sparse earlier reports of Richter's syndrome in western Africa. CLINICAL PRESENTATION AND INTERVENTION: A 52-year-old male had been diagnosed earlier as having chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and treated for 6 months with chlorambucil, although compliance was poor and the patient eventually stopped treatment. He presented to our hospital 18 months later with clinical features in keeping with Richter's syndrome. The blood and bone marrow smear review, together with fine-needle aspiration cytology of the masses, showed diffuse large cells of non-Hodgkin lymphoma consistent with the Richter's syndrome stage of CLL. There was significant improvement in response to the first 4 cycles of CHOP chemotherapy (consisting of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone) instituted, but then there were features of relapse. CONCLUSION: The case report serves to increase awareness and improve the index of suspicion about the terminal phase of CLL and low-grade lymphoma. It equally emphasizes the great need to strengthen further the laboratory diagnosis of haematological malignancies in developing countries."
3011	"This review aims to interrelate the major lymphoma types in the current World Health Organization (WHO) classification to construct a framework for understanding and diagnostic application. Multiple morphological, phenotypical and molecular genotypical data are assessed in order to categorise lymphomas into germinal centre (GC) and extracentric (EC) subgroups. GC entities [lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin, follicular, Burkitt's, angioimmunoblastic T-cell and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) with GC profile] express bcl-6, CD10 and/or the GC-homing chemokine CXCL13, and harbour ongoing somatic hypermutations (SHM), but not Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in its higher latency states. Post-GC entities [classical Hodgkin, marginal zone and lymphoplasmacytic lymphomas, half  of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), DLBCL with 'activated' or post-GC profile, primary effusion lymphoma, plasmacytoma and  myeloma] express, instead, MUM.1 and/or CD138, harbour static rather than ongoing SHM, and may harbour EBV in higher latency states. The remainder of CLL/SLL and the majority of mantle cell lymphoma without SHM constitute the pre-GC ('naive')  category, with coexpression of IgD and CD5. Lymphomas can be categorised across lineage (B- or T-cell) and relationship against host immune response (Hodgkin or  non-Hodgkin) into GC and EC groups, affording leverage in their differential diagnosis."
3012	"Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) is a severe cutaneous drug reaction with a long duration of eruption and serious organ involvement. The mortality rate has been estimated at about 10%. Aromatic anticonvulsants, sulphamides, minocycline and more rarely carbamazepine are the principal responsible drugs. We report the first case of chlorambucil-induced DRESS syndrome in a 70-year-old man recently diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. He developed recurrent skin rash, fever, hypereosinophilia, and acute  renal failure after rechallenge with chlorambucil. The condition improved slowly  after stopping medication and systemic steroids. Prompt recognition of a chlorambucil drug reaction is essential in patients receiving chemotherapy."
3013	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Constrictive bronchiolitis is a rare and potentially fatal manifestation of paraneoplastic autoimmune multi-organ syndrome (PAMS), also called paraneoplastic pemphigus. The current review aimed to assess the frequency and clinical features of constrictive bronchiolitis occurring in patients with PAMS. METHODS: A computer-assisted search of medical records identified 17 patients with PAMS seen during the period 1994-2007. Medical records, radiological studies and biopsy results were reviewed. RESULTS: There were 10 men and 7 women; the median age at diagnosis of PAMS was 60 years (range 33-72 years). Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia were the underlying neoplasms in over two-thirds of these patients. Constrictive bronchiolitis was diagnosed in three patients who had respiratory symptoms, severe airflow obstruction on pulmonary function testing and evidence of air trapping on CT scanning with no other identifiable cause for these findings. In contrast to previous reports, two of the three patients with constrictive bronchiolitis presented with skin and respiratory manifestations in  the absence of a known neoplasm. Seven patients with PAMS died (41%) after a median interval of 13 months (range 1-33 months) and the deaths included two of the constrictive bronchiolitis patients who continued to worsen despite immunosuppressive therapy. CONCLUSIONS: In a minority of patients with PAMS, constrictive bronchiolitis occurs and tends to cause progressive airflow obstruction that responds poorly to immunosuppressive therapy. Constrictive bronchiolitis in these patients may be manifest prior to the discovery of the underlying neoplasm and the diagnosis of PAMS."
3014	"The dual c-abl/Src kinase inhibitor, dasatinib, utilized to treat chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) when used at clinically attainable sublethal concentrations, synergistically sensitized primary chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) lymphocytes to chlorambucil and fludarabine. In contrast, dasatinib alone demonstrated toxicity to CLL lymphocytes at concentrations that are generally not clinically attainable. Dasatinib resistance and poorer dasatinib-mediated sensitization to chlorambucil and fludarabine was associated with higher expression of c-abl protein levels. In contrast, chlorambucil and fludarabine resistance correlated with basal p53 protein levels. Moreover, Western blot analysis after in vitro treatment of primary CLL lymphocytes with dasatinib, chlorambucil and/or fludarabine, showed that dasatinib: (i) inhibited c-abl function (e.g. downregulation of c-abl protein levels and decreased the phosphorylation of a c-abl downstream target, Dok2), (ii) decreased chlorambucil/fludarabine induced accumulation of p53 protein levels, (iii) altered the response to chlorambucil/fludarabine induced DNA-damage as evidenced  by an increase in chlorambucil/fludarabine-induced H2AX phosphorylation, and (iv) accentuated the c-abl downregulation induced by chlorambucil/fludarabine. Our results suggest that dasatinib in combination with chlorambucil or fludarabine may improve the therapy of CLL."
3016	"We examined the effects of active untreated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) on health-related quality of life (HRQoL), measured by the European Organization  for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) at randomisation into the Leukaemia Research Fund CLL4 trial. Patients were scored 0-100 within each of 15 domains. A difference between groups of > or  = 10 points was deemed clinically significant (asterisked * below). 431 valid baseline questionnaires were returned. Compared with population norms, patients had impaired HRQoL in 13/15 domains. The greatest differences were in fatigue*, sleep disturbance*, role functioning and global HRQoL. Fatigue was reported by 81% of patients, compared with the next most common symptoms: sleep disturbance (56%) and dyspnoea (49%). There was no association between spleen, liver or lymph node enlargement, or lymphocytosis and any HRQoL domain. Older age (> or =70 years) was associated with poorer physical functioning (P < 0.001) but fewer financial difficulties (P < 0.001*). Impairment of HRQoL at baseline was most apparent in stage A-progressive patients with B-symptoms and stage C patients with haemoglobin <120 g/l: compared with all others, these patients had poorer physical, role and social functioning, more fatigue and dyspnoea and poorer global HRQoL (all P < or = 0.001*). These findings support the recommendation to  begin treatment when patients experience symptomatic disease, to improve HRQoL."
3017	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the most common form of leukaemia in the Western world for which no curative treatments are currently available. Purine nucleotide analogues and alkylating agents feature frequently in combination regimens to treat the malignant state, but their use has not led to any significant improvement in patient survival. Consequently, there still remains a need for alternative small-molecule chemotherapeutics. Natural products are an unparalleled source of drug leads, and an unending inspiration for the design of small-molecule libraries for drug discovery. The screening of focused libraries of natural-product-like spiroketal and fused bicyclic acetal small molecules against primary CLL cells has led to the identification of a small series of novel and potent cytotoxic agents towards primary CLL cells. The validation of the activity of these molecules is delineated through a series of synthesis and screening iterations, whereas preliminary mode of action studies positively indicate their ability to induce cell death via an apoptotic pathway with no evidence of necrosis to further support their potential as novel chemotherapeutic agents."
3018	"Fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC) at conventional doses is an effective treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). However, FC at standard doses  may give hematological and non-hematological toxicity, predominantly in the elderly. Intravenous or oral low-dose FC regimens remain highly effective in elderly patients with Low-Grade Lymphomas other than CLL and are well tolerated.  We tested efficacy and toxicity of oral FC at reduced doses in 26 elderly patients (median 71 years) with previously untreated (UT-CLL, n = 14) or relapsed/refractory CLL (R-CLL, n = 12), unfit for conventional treatments. Twentyfour-of-26 (92%) patients (14/14, 100% UT-CLL; 10/12, 83.5% R-CLL) obtained a response, with 12/26 (46%) complete responses (9/14, 64.2% in UT-CLL; 3/12, 25% in R-CLL). Non-hematological toxicity was mild and myelosuppression was documented in 8/26 (31%) patients (4/14, 28% UT-CLL; 4/12, 33% R-CLL). With a median follow-up of 24 months, median event-free survival was 48 months with no differences between UT-CLL and R-CLL and all responders were alive. Low-dose oral FC treatment showed good efficacy in both untreated and refractory/relapsed CLL.  The treatment is useful in elderly patients who cannot benefit of more aggressive schedules and is easy to administer on an outpatient basis."
3019	"Several studies suggest that immune-mediated pathways are important in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The in vivo accumulation of  leukaemic lymphocytes is facilitated by interactions of CLL cells with other cells and soluble factors that probably occur more often within the microenvironment through classical receptor-ligand interactions. These include CD40L-CD40 and chemokine-chemokine receptor interactions as well as B cell receptor (BCR) engagement by (auto)antigens. Indeed, the categorizations of CLL patients based on immunoglobulin heavy variable (IGHV) gene mutations and structure of the clone's BCR suggest that CLL patient outcome could be a reflection of ongoing BCR signalling in the context of other co-signals."
3020	"In contrast to other B-cell neoplasias, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is characterized by increased non-leukaemic T-cells. In order to assess their replicative history, telomere length was analyzed in subsets of leucocytes from CLL patients. Naive and memory T-cells from ZAP-70(+)/CD38(+) patients exhibited  significantly shorter average telomere lengths than ZAP-70(-)/CD38(-) patients. Compared to the age-related percentiles of telomere length values from healthy individuals practically all values of the naive and memory T-cells from the ZAP-70(+)/CD38(+) CLL patients fell below the 50th percentile. This indicated an  extensive expansion and a role for T-cells in ZAP-70(+)/CD38(+) CLL patients."
3021	"Deletion of 17p (TP53) identifies a rare subset of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  (17p- CLL) with aggressive behaviour. Genome-wide DNA-profiling was performed to  investigate 18 patients with 17p- CLL. All cases had multiple copy-number (CN) changes. Among the several recurrent CN changes identified, 8q24.13-q24.1-gain (MYC), 8p-loss (TNFRSF10A/B, also known as TRAIL1/2) and 2p16.1-p14-gain (REL/BCL11A) appeared frequently represented. 8p-loss and 2p16.1-p14-gain also appeared clinically relevant and predicted significant shorter time from diagnosis to treatment (8p-loss) and overall survival (8p-loss and 2p16.1-p14-gain, P < 0.05). These observations document a highly unstable genome  in 17p- CLL and suggest that additional genes outside the TP53 locus may be important for tumour behaviour."
3023	"As IgM multiple myeloma is a rare poorly characterised disease entity; there is only limited published data on its clinical, microscopic and immunophenotypic features. We report a 72-year-old man misdiagnosed as Waldenström's macroglobulinemia. Also the diagnosis was further complicated by coexisting chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Following confirmation of IgM myeloma, in view of  the patient's deteriorating clinical condition; he was entered into the UK Medical Research Council Myeloma IX trial where he had partial response to chemotherapy. This case highlights the value of detailed immunophenotypic evaluation when clinical and morphological markers are equivocal."
3024	"The correlation between well-established biological parameters of prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) [i.e., mutational status  of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (IgV(H)), ZAP-70- and CD38-expression] and adiponectin serum concentration was evaluated in a cohort of 69 previously untreated Binet stage A CLL patients. Adiponectin levels inversely  correlated with absolute peripheral blood lymphocyte count (r = -0.254; P = 0.03), CD38-positive CLL cells (r = -0.294; P = 0.04) and ZAP-70 (r = -0.285; P = 0.03). The univariate Cox proportional hazard model demonstrated that, in addition with lower serum levels of adiponectin (P = 0.01), the unmutated IgV(H)  condition (P = 0.002) and ZAP-70-positivity (P = 0.02) were associated with a shorter time to first treatment (TFT). However, in multivariate analysis only ZAP-70 positivity emerged as predictor of the TFT (P = 0.008). The levels of adiponectin in CLL were evaluated in 60 patients from an independent cohort investigated by gene expression profiling. Adiponectin gene expression was invariably low suggesting a limited (if any) role of leukemic cells in the production of circulating adiponectin levels. In contrast, both adiponectin receptor 1 (AdipoR1) and AdipoR2 mRNA were highly expressed by CLL cells with a degree of inter-patient variability. Our results, although preliminary, lend support to the idea that adiponectin secretion by bone marrow adipocytes might represent a possible promising drug target in the field of hematology."
3026	"BACKGROUND: Wnt signalling has recently been implicated in the pathogenesis of cancer. METHODS: This study investigated the activity of Wnt signalling in peripheral blood chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) lymphocytes, and the methylation status of seven soluble Wnt antagonist genes, including WIF1, DKK3, APC, SFRP1, SFRP2, SFRP4 and SFRP5, by using methylation-specific PCR in the peripheral blood CLL lymphocytes and bone marrow samples of patients with CLL at diagnosis. RESULTS: In the peripheral blood CLL lymphocytes, constitutive activation of Wnt  signalling was detected, associated with hypermethylation of the soluble Wnt inhibitor genes. In the diagnostic CLL marrow samples, methylation of the seven genes was detected in up to 36.4% of samples. Moreover, 23 (52.3%) patients had methylation of at least one of the seven genes, of whom 14 (60.8%) had methylation of two or more Wnt inhibitor genes. Apart from an association of advanced age with DKK3 methylation, there was no association of gene hypermethylation with either clinical characteristics (including age, gender, lymphocyte count at diagnosis, Rai stage and poor-risk karyotype) or survival. CONCLUSION: Wnt signalling is constitutively activated in CLL B lymphocytes in association with methylation of multiple soluble Wnt antagonist genes. Methylation of these soluble Wnt antagonist genes, occasionally multiple genes, in primary CLL marrow samples suggests an important role in CLL pathogenesis. Moreover, this study underscored the importance of studying methylation of a panel of, but not individual, genes regulating a cellular pathway."
3027	"A multicentre single-arm study testing the efficacy and toxicity of the oral combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC) over 5 d in 75 patients with untreated B cell-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Oral FC demonstrated high efficacy with overall (OR) and complete response (CR) rates of 80% and 53%, respectively. Out of the 30 CR patients studied for Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) using 4-colour flow-cytometry and the 22 using Clonospecific polymerase chain reaction, 22 (66%) and 16 (68%), respectively, were MRD negative. Median survival and median treatment-free interval had not been reached at 7 years of follow-up. Median progression-free survival (PFS) was 5 years. Toxicity was acceptable, with 52% and 16% of National Cancer Institute grade 3/4 neutropenia and infections, respectively. Gastrointestinal toxicity was mild. Oral FC demonstrated a high efficacy and an acceptable safety profile and may be considered as the standard first line treatment in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia."
3030	"OBJECTIVE: Whilst Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is considered a rare disease, to our knowledge, the current prevalence of CLL within the European Union (EU) member states is not published. Understanding the number of individuals with CLL is vital to assess disease burden within the wider population. METHODS: Using 2002 data from the International Agency for Research on Cancer, we estimated the number of individuals with CLL (ICD-10 C91.1) from those reported for all leukaemias (C91-95) and extrapolated the figures by the population increase within the EU between 2002 and 2006, the last year with fully updated community population estimates. One- and 5-yr partial prevalence estimates are reported (i.e. the number of individuals still living 1-5 yr post-diagnosis). We  then applied proportional estimates from the literature to assess those requiring immediate treatment, those under observation and their likely progression rates. RESULTS: We found that within the 27 EU states plus Iceland, Norway and Lichtenstein, 1- and 5-yr CLL partial prevalence estimates totalled approximately 13,952 and 46,633 individuals respectively in 2006. By applying Binet staging to  the 1-yr estimate, 40% of patients will be stage B/C and require immediate treatment. Thus, 5581 individuals may be treated within the first year of diagnosis. Of the 60% (8371) under observation, by 5 yr up to 33% (2763) may have more advanced disease with increased risk of mortality. CONCLUSION: Whilst CLL is a rare disease, the number of individuals burdened by the disease within the EU is considerable and thousands of patients require treatment and physician care, which has cost implications for member states."
3033	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) should be an ideal target for immune-mediated responses. CLL arises from B cells that can act as antigen-presenting cells (APCs), expresses unique tumour antigens, and has been shown to be a target of the allogeneic T cells which mediate a graft-versus-leukaemia effect. Despite these potential benefits, immune responses against CLL cells have been difficult to elicit. CLL induces immune defects in the host, the tumour cells are inefficient APCs, and therapies given to patients  with CLL are themselves immunosuppressive. Successful vaccination approaches in this disease will require steps to overcome these difficulties, including identification of the targets of immune responses in this disease to enable monitoring of the immune response after vaccination, improved presentation of antigens, and steps to improve the immune defects that accompany this disease."
3034	"Immunotherapy for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) and other haematological malignancies may consist of passive antibody, active immunization  or adoptive T-cell transfer. This chapter will focus on T-lymphocyte immunotherapy; an approach supported by earlier observations that the beneficial  effects of allogeneic stem cell transplantation depend, in part, on the graft-versus-leukaemia effects mediated by these cells. One promising strategy consists of the genetic manipulation of effector T lymphocytes to express tumour-specific T-cell receptors or chimeric antigen receptors directed against surface antigens on the B-CLL cells. This methodology is now being integrated with the concept that tumour recurrence may be due to the persistence of a reservoir of more primitive and chemoresistant tumour cells, dubbed 'cancer stem  cells', with self-renewal capacity. Identification and characterization of these  cancer stem cells in B-CLL is crucial for the development of new anti-tumour agents, and for the identification of target antigens for cellular immunotherapy. This chapter will describe how immunotherapy may be directed to a more primitive  side population of B-CLL cells."
3036	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the commonest form of leukaemia in adults  in Western countries. We performed multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) analysis in 50 CLL patients to identify multiple genomic CLL-specific targets, including genes located at 13q14, 17p13 (TP53), 11q23 (ATM) and chromosome 12, and compared the results with those obtained with fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). There was a good correlation between MLPA and FISH  results, as most alterations (89%) were detected by both techniques. Only three cases with a low percentage (<25%) of cells carrying the alterations were not detected by MLPA. On the other hand, as MLPA uses multiple probes it identified intragenic or small alterations undetected by FISH in three cases. MLPA also detected alterations in 8q24 (MYC) and 6q25-26. In summary, unlike interphase FISH, MLPA enabled the simultaneous analysis of many samples with automated data  processing at a low cost. Therefore, the combination of robust multiplexing and high throughput makes MLPA a useful technique for the analysis of genomic alterations in CLL."
3037	"Flow cytometric analysis of CD23 expression in CD5-positive B-cells is a widely applied method in the differential diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). According to the most accepted criteria, the leukaemic cell population is CD19/CD5/CD23 triple positive in CLL but CD23-negative in MCL. Recently, several groups have reported CD23-positive MCL cases; however, these studies mostly analysed only CD23 positivity but not intensity. To determine the role and the cut-off levels of CD23 positivity and intensity in the differential diagnosis of CLL and MCL, 26 cases of MCL and 84 cases of CLL were compared using flow cytometric analysis. Our results suggest that high values of CD23 positivity (>92.5%) and/or high fluorescence intensity (>44.5 mean fluorescence intensity (MFI)) of CD23 are related to CLL, whereas low CD23 positivity (<30%) is related to MCL. However, cases with intermediate CD23 positivity (between 30 and 92.5%) and lower intensity (<44.5 MFI) can either belong to CLL or MCL. In these cases, additional tests such as FISH analysis of the translocation t(11;14) or immunohistochemical detection of cyclin D1 overexpression are required to differentiate CLL from MCL."
3039	"Despite the major role of the AKT/PKB family of proteins in the regulation of many growth and survival mechanisms in the cell, and the increasing evidence suggesting that AKT disruption could play a key role in many human malignancies,  no major mutations of AKT genes had been reported, until very recently when Carpten et al reported a novel transforming mutation (E17K) in the pleckstrin homology domain of the AKT1 gene in solid tumours. Several laboratories are now screening for this mutation in different malignancies, and, recently, the mutation was described by Malanga et al in 1.9% of lung cancer patients. Considering the importance of the PI3K/AKT pathway in mediating survival and antiapoptotic signals in the B-cell types of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)  and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), we sequenced the AKT1 exon 3 for the above mentioned mutation in 87 specimens, representing 45 CLLs, 38 ALLs and 4 prolymphocytic leukaemia (PLL) cases, which are all of B-cell origin. Our results show that the mutation E17K/AKT1 was not detected in the pleckstrin homology domain of AKT1 of the investigated cases. We conclude that this mutation is not a major event in B-cell-derived lymphoid leukaemias."
3041	"Ethnicity has a major impact on the prevalence of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and may also influence disease phenotype. We compared the clinical features of Southern Asian and White CLL patients managed within one UK region. Asians required treatment almost twice as often as Whites (HR, 1.94) and had a shorter time to first treatment (P = 0.0063). This difference remained significant after  adjusting for stage, lymphocyte doubling time and IGHV status (P = 0.026). CLL was diagnosed at younger ages in Asians and racial-specific variations in IGHV usage were demonstrated. Our findings indicate that Southern Asian race has a negative impact on CLL phenotype."
3042	"In agreement with a recently published manuscript, this present study demonstrated that CD38+ sub-populations had increased proliferative activity as evidenced by higher Ki-67 expression (P < 0.0001). This raised the possibility that the CD38+ fraction is exposed to an increased risk of clonal evolution. However, serial fluorescence in situ hybridisation analysis of highly purified CD38+ and CD38- sub-populations from individual patients revealed no distinct cytogenetic lesions or evidence of preferential clonal evolution in the CD38+ fractions when compared with their CD38- counter-parts (P = 0.13). Furthermore, telomere length analysis revealed that all of the sub-populations had similarly short telomeres (P = 0.31) and comparably low telomerase (TERT) expression (P = 0.75) and telomerase activity (P = 0.88). Subsequent examination of cell-sorted CD38+ and CD38- sub-populations from paired peripheral blood and bone marrow samples taken on the same day showed no significant difference in CD38, Ki-67, TERT expression or telomere lengths, indicating that these chronic lymphocytic leukaemia cells were derived from a single pool trafficking between these two compartments. Taken together, our data show that chronic lymphocytic leukaemia cells derived from bimodal patients all have extensive proliferative histories and have undergone a similar number of cell divisions that is mirrored by the episodic expression of CD38."
3043	"BACKGROUND: Acadesine is an adenosine-regulating agent that increases bioavailability of adenosine and has important metabolic effects, partly through  activation of the key metabolic regulatory enzyme, AMP-activated protein kinase. OBJECTIVE: This review aimed to summarise and critique available data on the mechanism of action and clinical utility of acadesine, with a focus on treatment  of ischaemic reperfusion injury, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and diabetes mellitus. METHODS: The literature was acquired through numerous avenues including Medline,  Pubmed, institutional libraries and relevant pharmaceutical companies using keyword search criteria for all trade and common names of acadesine and its derivatives. RESULTS: Acadesine has proven intravenous efficacy in the amelioration of ischaemic reperfusion injury associated with coronary artery bypass graft surgery in Phase III clinical trials. Acadesine is active only in metabolically stressed  tissues in the presence of ATP catabolism and therefore has fewer unwanted peripheral side effects than systemic administration of adenosine. Metabolism of  the drug is through the endogenous purine pathway and acadesine has been proven to be safe and well tolerated. More recently, acadesine has entered Phase I trials for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia to compete with purine antagonists that are used at present. AMPK-activating agents with high oral bioavailability have potential application in impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance and types 1 and 2 diabetes, however the poor oral bioavailability of acadesine precludes such application. CONCLUSIONS: This review highlights that, although limited to intravenous application, acadesine is a potentially viable therapy for ischaemic reperfusion  injury following coronary artery bypass surgery. Further studies are required to  determine the efficacy of acadesine for other ischaemic indications, including during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction."
3044	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) results from the accumulation of malignant immunologically incompetent lymphocytes. A routine full blood count of a single patient revealed that he had CLL. The daily intake of 700ml of fresh bovine milk  resulted in a decrease in the lymphocyte count from 85.5x10(9)/l to 12.5x10(9)/l  over a period of 5 years. The aim was to establish which constituent(s) in milk would be responsible for the decline of the lymphocyte count. It was found that the higher vitamin D constituent in the milk, the lower the lymphocyte count. Whilst the milk from large dairy farms which use supplements in the feed in order to increase milk production, considerably decreased the lymphocyte count, the milk from small dairy farms, which do not supplement, had hardly any effect. The  present study indicates that gossypol in cottonseed cake and oil are potentially  responsible for the decrease in white blood cell count. It appears that gossypol  is a very powerful anti-neoplastic agent. Free gossypol (Fig. 1) is a toxic phenolic compound which becomes detoxified in ruminants by binding to milk proteins, but gossypol is still an active inhibitor of tumour growth in the excreted milk."
3046	"Chromosomal translocations that involve MYC, characteristic of Burkitt lymphoma,  are rare in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We report the clinical, morphological, immunophenotypic, cytogenetic and molecular genetic features of eight CLL cases with MYC rearrangement. The patients, five men and three women (median age, 71 years) had bone marrow involvement and an absolute peripheral blood lymphocytosis; five had lymphadenopathy; seven had splenomegaly. Prolymphocytes were increased (>/=10%) in all cases. Six cases were classified as CLL with increased prolymphocytes (CLL/PL; prolymphocytes 10-55%), and two were classified as CLL in prolymphocytic transformation (CLL/PT; prolymphocytes >55%). All cases co-expressed CD5, CD19, and CD23; five of eight expressed ZAP-70. Of seven cases tested, four had mutated and three had unmutated IGHV genes. Conventional cytogenetic studies demonstrated t(8;14)(q24.1;q32) in five cases, t(8;22)(q24.1;q11) in two cases, and t(2;8)(p12;q24.1) in one case. Seven cases contained additional chromosomal abnormalities. All patients received combination chemotherapy. Two developed Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL) that were clonally unrelated to the CLL. At follow-up, two patients are alive, four died of underlying disease, one died of EBV-associated DLBCL, and one died of an unrelated cancer. In summary, MYC rearrangement, which occurs rarely in CLL patients, is associated with increased  prolymphocytes, complex cytogenetic abnormalities, and a poor prognosis."
3047	"Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is increasingly reported as an important outcome in cancer clinical trials. However, very little evidence exists on the impact of such evaluation in randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of leukaemia patients. A systematic search of the literature from 1980 to 2007 was undertaken  and studies were identified and evaluated independently, according to a pre-defined coding scheme, by three reviewers. Both HRQOL outcomes and traditional clinical reported outcomes were systematically analysed to evaluate their consistency and their relevance for supporting clinical decision making. Nine RCTs were identified, involving 3838 patients overall. There were four RCTs  involving acute myeloid leukaemia patients (AML), three with chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) and two with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Six studies were published after 2000 and provided fairly robust methodological quality. Imatinib greatly improved HRQOL compared to interferon based treatments in CML patients and fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide does not seem to have a deleterious impact on patient's HRQOL when compared to fludarabine alone or chlorambucil in CLL patients. This study revealed the paucity of HRQOL research in leukaemia patients. Nonetheless, HRQOL assessment is feasible in RCTs and has  the great potential of providing valuable outcomes to further support clinical decision making."
3048	"AIMS: Liver involvement is a common finding in patients suffering from lymphoproliferative disease, and histopathological patterns of infiltration vary  according to lymphoma subtype. Data correlating the form of liver involvement with distinct lymphoma subtypes is, however, scarce. The aim was to review 89 liver biopsies diagnosed with lymphoma infiltration and evaluate the infiltration patterns. METHODS AND RESULTS: In equivocal cases, additional immunohistochemical and molecular pathology analyses were performed to differentiate between neoplastic and reactive cell infiltrates and to classify the lymphoma subtypes. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) and Burkitt lymphoma (BL) were the most prevalent subtypes in our series, which included 14 different lymphoma entities in total. Whereas DLBCL and BL predominantly demonstrated tumour nodules deranging the normal hepatic architecture, CLL and HL mostly showed infiltration of the portal fields. Interestingly, distinct lymphoma entities, particularly marginal zone B-cell lymphomas (MZL) and HL, commonly revealed lympho-epithelial lesions of bile ducts, which were observed in 10% of all investigated cases. Four cases, initially interpreted as T-cell lymphomas, proved to be reactive T-cell lesions. CONCLUSIONS: Distinct lymphoma subtypes show characteristic patterns of liver infiltration. Additional molecular analyses can support diagnosis by verification of clonality or detection of characteristic genetic aberrations."
3049	"CD31 is the physiological ligand for CD38. CD38 expression in a high percentage of malignant cells is a risk factor for patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia (B-CLL). A previous investigation demonstrated that quantification of CD38 improves upon the prognostic value of the percentage expression. A recent study states that the percentage of CD31 expression is not predictive in B-CLL. We reassessed the predictive power of CD31 in a cohort of 120 patients with B-CLL. Peripheral blood cells were stained with PCP-labelled anti (alpha)-CD19, FITC-alpha-CD5 and PE-alpha-CD31 antibodies. CD31 expression was quantified using beads of specific antibody binding capacity and the density was correlated with clinical outcome. End points were disease-specific survival and time to treatment (TTT). We report that CD31 density was significantly lower in the group of patients with Binet stage B and C of disease progression (P=0.0003). There was an inverse, significant correlation between CD31 and CD38 densities (R= -0.281, P=0.002). All CLL-related deaths occurred in patients with low CD31 density. Low  CD31 predicted for poor disease outcome (survival, P=0.0087; TTT, P=0.0064) and identified Binet stage A patients (survival, P=0.0350; TTT, P=0.0716) and those with low CD38 (survival: all patients, P<0.0001; stage A, P=0.003) who followed a more aggressive clinical course. Disease-specific survival of patients with low CD31 and high CD38 densities was significantly shorter than all other groups. In  addition, low CD31 density was a poor risk factor irrespective of patient age (survival: all patients, P=0.045; stage A, P=0.021) and identified patients with  Binet stage B/C as the highest risk group (P<0.0001). In conclusion, low CD31 density is an adverse prognostic indicator in B-CLL. Also, low CD31 density enhances the prognostic power of CD38 density. The interaction between CD31 and CD38 and its clinical significance in B-CLL requires further investigation."
3050	"BACKGROUND: Fludarabine has been reported to be an effective drug for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and indolent lymphomas. However, its safety and efficacy in Indian patients has not been studied. We retrospectively analysed our experience with fludarabine in low grade lymphomas and CLL. METHODS: The records of all patients with low grade lymphoma or CLL who received  fludarabine between April 1999 and November 2006 were analysed. Response evaluation was done as per the National Cancer Institute-Working Group guidelines for CLL and International Workshop criteria for non-Hodgkin lymphomas, respectively, in those patients who received at least 3 cycles of fludarabine. Toxicity was graded as per the common terminology criteria for adverse events, version 3.0. Median event-free survival was obtained using Kaplan-Meier survival  analysis. RESULTS: Forty-seven patients were included in the study and 189 cycles were administered (median: 4 cycles per patient). Sixteen patients had a treatment delay, 14 due to myelosuppression. Twenty-five patients had low grade lymphoma and 22 had CLL. The response was evaluable in 22 patients with low grade lymphoma and 20 with CLL. The overall response rate for CLL was 100% in those treated upfront (n=9) and 55% in those with relapsed disease (n=11). The overall response rate for low grade lymphoma was 88% (63% complete remission) in untreated patients and 79% (43% complete remission) in those with relapsed disease. Common  adverse events were myelosuppression and infection. Two patients died of sepsis and 4 due to disease progression on treatment. Median event-free survival for patients treated upfront with fludarabine was 31.4 months. CONCLUSION: In our patient population, response to fludarabine is similar to that in the published literature. Our patients had a higher frequency of haematological toxicity."
3051	"This report describes recurrent respiratory distress following vincristine administration to a cat with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. The cat was treated with a combination of vincristine, chlorambucil and prednisolone with initial success. After approximately 4 months, dyspnoea developed within 6 h of vincristine administration. Emergency therapy was instituted resulting in a full  recovery. Further vincristine was administered; dyspnoea was similarly noted after all but one of these treatments. Dyspnoeic episodes were not attributable to alterations in vincristine dose or method of administration. The repeated temporal association was consistent with a suspected adverse drug reaction to vincristine."
3052	"The commonly used anti-cancer drug chlorambucil is the primary treatment for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Chlorambucil has been shown to be detoxified by human glutathione transferase Pi (GST P1-1), an enzyme that is often found over-expressed in cancer tissues. The allelic variants of GST P1-1 are associated with differing susceptibilities to leukaemia and differ markedly in their efficiency in catalysing glutathione (GSH) conjugation reactions. Here,  we perform detailed kinetic studies of the allelic variants with the aid of three representative co-substrates. We show that the differing catalytic properties of  the variants are highly substrate-dependent. We show also that all variants exhibit the same temperature stability in the range 10 degrees C to 45 degrees C. We have determined the crystal structures of GST P1-1 in complex with chlorambucil and its GSH conjugate for two of these allelic variants that have different residues at positions 104 and 113. Chlorambucil is found to bind in a non-productive mode to the substrate-binding site (H-site) in the absence of GSH. This result suggests that under certain stress conditions where GSH levels are low, GST P1-1 can inactivate the drug by sequestering it from the surrounding medium. However, in the presence of GSH, chlorambucil binds in the H-site in a productive mode and undergoes a conjugation reaction with GSH present in the crystal. The crystal structure of the GSH-chlorambucil complex bound to the *C variant is identical with the *A variant ruling out the hypothesis that primary structure differences between the variants cause structural changes at the active site. Finally, we show that chlorambucil is a very poor inhibitor of the enzyme in contrast to ethacrynic acid, which binds to the enzyme in a similar fashion but can act as both substrate and inhibitor."
3054	"We report the genetic analysis of a large multi-generational family composed of 144 individuals in which 11 members have been diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia (CLL). The observation of a significant over-representation of monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) in unaffected family members strongly supports MBL being a surrogate marker of carrier status. A genome-wide linkage scan of the family using high-density 10K single nucleotide polymorphisms provided no significant evidence for a single gene model of disease susceptibility, inviting speculation that susceptibility to CLL has a more complex basis. The absence of a correlation in IGHV usage between affected family members does however argue strongly against exposure to a single super-antigen in disease development."
3055	"Predictors of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) transformation to Richter syndrome (RS) are not established and were investigated in 185 consecutive CLL cases. Actuarial incidence of RS (n = 17; all diffuse large B-cell lymphomas) at  10 years was 16.2% (95% confidence interval: 8.0-24.4%). At CLL diagnosis, prognosticators of RS by univariate analysis were IGHV homology >/=98% (P = 0.006), IGHV4-39 usage (P < 0.001), del13q14 absence (P = 0.004), expression of CD38 (P < 0.001) and ZAP70 (P = 0.004), size (P < 0.001) and number (P < 0.001) of lymph nodes, advanced Binet stage (P = 0.002), and lactate dehydrogenase (P <  0.001). Multivariate analysis, performed separately for biological and clinical variables, identified CD38 expression [Hazard ratio (HR) = 4.26; P = 0.018], IGHV4-39 usage (HR = 4.29; P = 0.018), and lymph node size >/=3 cm (HR = 9.07; P  < 0.001) as independent RS prognosticators. A multivariate model simultaneously analysing biological and clinical variables identified lymph node size >/=3 cm (HR = 6.51; P = 0.001) and del13q14 absence (HR = 4.08; P = 0.031) as independent RS prognosticators. Risk factors of CLL transformation differed from risk factors of CLL progression. These results suggest that CD38 and del13q14 may identify biological subsets of CLL with different RS predisposition. Predominant nodal disease, CD38 expression, IGHV4-39 usage, and absence of del13q14 may help in predicting RS at CLL diagnosis. Close monitoring and a careful biopsy policy are  needed in patients carrying transformation risk factors."
3056	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients harbour important impairments  in both their cellular- and humoral-mediated immunity, which accounts for their notorious susceptibility to a multitude of infections and various autoimmune cytopenias. It has also been shown that the rate of second cancers is increased in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to review the immune alterations in untreated and treated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and define their impact for clinical practice. METHODS: The author gives a comprehensive review of the most relevant preclinical and clinical studies pertaining to various immune abnormalities and infectious complications in both untreated and treated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Landmark clinical trials involving the contemporary chronic lymphocytic leukaemia chemo- and immunotherapies, alone or in combination, as well as the main epidemiological studies establishing the increased rate of second cancers in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia are also discussed. RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: Iatrogenic immunosuppression in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia alters the pattern of opportunistic infections, can cause autoimmune cytopenias and might further increase the rate of second malignancies in patients whose disease already places them at a greater risk. Careful consideration of existing risk factors in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia could establish the optimal screening and follow-up schedule for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients as its therapeutics evolves."
3057	"Common polymorphisms in genes encoding for cytokines implicated in the inflammatory response and Th1/Th2 balance might play a role in the development and prognosis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). To test the hypothesis, we  investigated 13 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in nine of such genes in a population-based case-control study, conducted in the Italian region of Sardinia  in 1999-2003. Forty incident CLL cases and 113 population controls were available for study. The following SNPs were selected: IL1A-889C > T, IL1RN 9589A > T, IL1B-31C > T, IL1B-511C > T, IL2-384T > G, IL6-174G > C, IL6-597G > A, IL10-1082A > G, IL10-3575T > A, TNF-308G > A, LTA- 91A > C, LTA 252A > G and CARD15 nt1007.  After adjusting by age and gender, individuals homozygous for the IL1B-511T allele run a lower risk of CLL (OR = 0.1, 95% CI 0.0, 0.8, p = 0.032), while risk showed a 4.5-fold increase associated with the genotype homozygous for the IL6-174C allele (OR = 4.5; 95% CI 1.1, 19.3, p = 0.041). Individuals homozygous for the IL6-174C allele and carrying the homozygous IL1B-511C allele showed an 11-fold increase in CLL risk (OR = 11.4, 95% CI 1.9, 69.4, p = 0.008). None of the other interleukin SNPs evaluated showed any association with CLL risk. Large  multicentre pooled studies are warranted, achieving the statistical power required to confirm whether IL6 and IL1B gene polymorphisms might play a role in  CLL development and prognosis, as well as the null associations herein reported."
3059	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) has been described as the progressive accumulation of mature-appearing B cells in peripheral blood and bone marrow, resulting from failed apoptosis rather than from alterations in cell cycle regulation. Recent investigations suggest that high WBC and lymphocyte counts result not only from defects in apoptosis, but also from cell proliferation. In this study, we aimed to examine the process of apoptosis in B-CLL patients before and during anti-cancer therapy, to answer the question of whether this parameter would presage the response to treatment and the clinical course of the disease. We found that ex vivo spontaneous apoptosis was higher in  advanced-stage (III-IV acc. Rai) than in early-stage (I-II acc. Rai) patients. In I-II Rai stage patients the percentage of ex vivo apoptotic cells after chemotherapy was higher than that of apoptotic cells prior to treatment, whereas  in III-IV Rai stage patients the percentage of ex vivo apoptotic cells after chemotherapy was lower than that of apoptotic cells before the anti-cancer therapy. The results of our study, in the context of the cited literature, suggest a relationship between higher ex vivo spontaneous apoptosis before treatment in advanced-stage patients with a higher proliferation of leukaemic cells and poor outcome."
3062	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) have a variable clinical course. The identification of modifiable characteristics related to CLL-specific  survival may provide opportunities for therapeutic intervention. The absolute number of T-cell and natural killer (NK)-cells was calculated for 166 consecutive patients with CLL evaluated by flow cytometry at Mayo Clinic < or = 2 months of diagnosis. The size of the T-cell/NK-cell compartment relative to the size of the malignant monoclonal B-cell (MBC) compartment was evaluated by calculating NK:MBC and T:MBC ratios. Patients exhibited substantial variation in the absolute number of T- and NK-cells as well as T:MBC and NK:MBC ratios at diagnosis. Higher T:MBC  and NK:MBC ratios were observed among patients with early stage and mutated IGHV  genes (all P < or = 0.0003). As continuous variables, both T:MBC ratio (P-value = 0.03) and NK:MBC ratio (P-value = 0.02) were associated with time to treatment (TTT). On multivariate Cox modelling including stage, CD38, absolute MBC count, NK:MBC ratio and T:MBC ratio, the independent predictors of TTT were stage, T:MBC ratio and NK:MBC ratio. These findings suggest that measurable characteristics of the host immune system relate to the rate of disease progression in patients with newly diagnosed CLL. These characteristics can be modified and continued evaluation of immunomodulatory drugs, vaccination strategies and cellular therapies to delay/prevent disease progression are warranted."
3063	"The development of cytopenia in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients can  predict poor prognosis. All CLL patients seen in the Division of Hematology at Mayo Clinic Rochester from 1 January 1995 to 31 December 2004 (n = 1750) were evaluated for cytopenia, aetiology of cytopenia and clinical outcome. Cytopenia occurred in 423 (24.2%) patients and was attributable to CLL in 303 (17.3%) cases, with 228 (75%) of these having bone marrow (BM) failure and 75 (25%) having autoimmune disease (AID). Survival from onset of cytopenia was significantly better for patients with AID (median 9.1 years) compared to patients with BM failure (median 4.4 years, P < 0.001). Patients with AID diagnosed within 1 year of the diagnosis of CLL (n = 35) had similar survival from diagnosis compared to patients without CLL-related cytopenia (median 9.3 vs. 9.7 years, P = 0.881). Although cytopenia caused by BM failure predicted a poorer prognosis in CLL, cytopenia caused by AID was not an adverse prognostic factor. These findings suggest that patients with cytopenia due to AID cannot be meaningfully classified by the current clinical staging systems. Revisions of the National Cancer Institute Working Group 96 criteria should consider the aetiology of cytopenia in staging CLL patients."
3064	"TP53 is mutated in 10-20% of cases of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and 3-8% of cases of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Recently, two classes of compounds that restore the function of p53 in tumours have been described. PRIMA-1 (p53-dependent reactivation and induction of massive apoptosis) restores  the wild-type conformation of mutant TP53, whereas RITA (reactivation of p53 and  induction of tumour cell apoptosis) increases intracellular levels of p53. We evaluated the effects of RITA alone and in combination with PRIMA-1 or conventional cytostatics on leukaemic cells isolated from AML and CLL patients. AML samples with -17, which are more resistant to daunorubicin and cytarabine compared with samples without -17, were effectively killed by PRIMA-1. RITA, which stabilizes the function of wild-type p53, induced apoptosis in AML cells. In contrast to that seen with PRIMA-1, AML patient samples without -17 were significantly more sensitive to RITA. Similarly, RITA exerted dose-dependent apoptosis and cytotoxicity in CLL cells, which was significantly more pronounced  in samples without hemizygous TP53 deletion. Notably, a synergistic effect was observed in all CLL samples with RITA and fludarabine in combination. In both AML and CLL cells exposure to RITA resulted in induction of intracellular p53. We conclude that small molecules targeting p53 might be of clinical importance in the future for treating drug-resistant leukaemia."
3065	"We review the key developments in our understanding of subcorneal pustular dermatosis (SCPD, also known as Sneddon-Wilkinson disease) over the past 50 years. SCPD is a rare, chronic, sterile pustular eruption that was first described by Sneddon and Wilkinson in 1956. The primary lesions are pea-sized pustules classically described as half-pustular, half-clear flaccid fluid blisters. Histologically the salient feature is a subcorneal accumulation of neutrophils, suggesting the presence of chemoattractants such as tumour necrosis  factor (TNF)alpha in the uppermost epidermis. However, to date its exact pathophysiology is unknown. Cases in association with pyoderma gangrenosum, benign monoclonal IgA gammopathy and multiple myeloma are well documented. There  are anecdotal reports of SCPD associated with other internal malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, thymoma, apudoma and epidermoid carcinoma of the lung. The treatment of choice is dapsone. Therapeutic alternatives include retinoids, phototreatment with psoralen ultraviolet (UV) A, broadband or narrow band UVB and corticosteroids. Anecdotal uses of tacalcitol, ketoconazole, azithromycin, tetracycline, minocycline, vitamin E, ciclosporin, colchicine, mizoribine, mebhydrolin, infliximab and adalimumab with mycophenolate mofetil have all been reported."
3066	"In the last decade, arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been used very successfully to treat acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). Much less is known about the effectiveness of As2O3 in other neoplastic disorders. In this paper, we report that after 18 h in vitro treatment with 4 microM As2O3, 75+/-18% of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells (n=52) underwent apoptosis. It is important to note that B-CLL cells harboring a deletion of chromosome 17p13, which predisposes to fludarabine resistance and has been identified as an important negative predictor of clinical outcome, were more susceptible to As2O3  toxicity than cells lacking this aberration. Furthermore, unfavourable risk profiles such as unmutated IgVH status, high CD38 expression and prior treatment  were associated with significantly higher sensitivity of B-CLL cells to As2O3. As2O3 also preferentially killed B-CLL cells compared to B cells from healthy age-matched controls. Molecular analysis revealed that basal superoxide dismutase activity was positively correlated with the pro-apoptotic activity of As2O3 pointing to a role of reactive oxygen species in cell death induction. The high activity of As2O3 in B-CLL cells from high-risk patients makes it a promising drug for high-risk and/or fludarabine-refractory B-CLL patients."
3067	"Several miRNAs have been reported to be associated with immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) mutation and ZAP-70 expression status in blood samples of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (B-CLL/SLL). In the bone marrow and lymphoid tissues, proliferation centres (PCs) represent an important site of activation and proliferation of the neoplastic cells, suggesting that these tissues better reflect the biology of CLL than circulating blood cells. We  collected 33 lymph nodes and 37 blood CLL samples and analysed IgH mutation status and ZAP-70 expression status. Expression of 15 miRNAs was analysed by qRT-PCR and RNA-ISH. Sixty-three per cent of the lymph node cases contained mutated IgH genes and 49% of the lymph node cases were ZAP-70-positive, and a significant correlation was observed between ZAP-70 expression and IgH mutation status. Of the blood CLL samples, 49% contained mutated IgH sequences. The miRNA  expression pattern in CLL lymph node and blood samples was very similar. Three of 15 miRNAs (miR-16, miR-21, and miR-150) showed a high expression level in both blood and lymph node samples. No difference was observed between ZAP-70-positive  or -negative and between IgH-mutated or unmutated cases. No correlation was found between miR-15a and miR-16 expression levels and 13q14 deletion in the blood CLL  samples. RNA in situ hybridization (ISH) revealed strong homogeneous staining of  miR-150 in the tumour cells outside the PCs. In reverse BIC/pri-miR-155 expression was observed mainly in individual cells including prolymphocytes of the PCs. This reciprocal pattern likely reflects the different functions and targets of miR-150 and miR-155."
3068	"In this study, we analysed 30 patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  (CLL), compared with 10 healthy donors, for the expression and function of the leukocyte-associated Ig-like receptor-1 (LAIR-1). LAIR-1 is an inhibitory receptor containing a cytoplasmic tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (ITIM) that binds to the SH2 domain of phosphatases, leading to dephosphorylation of different kinases. Constitutive activation of c-Jun aminoterminal kinase (JNK), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinase, has been reported in CLL. We show that LAIR-1 is absent in high-risk (HR) CLL and differently expressed on intermediate- and low-risk CLL and the intensity of expression, which is always significantly lower than in healthy donors, correlates with disease stage and progression. Interestingly, both constitutive and sIgM-induced phosphorylation of p38 and JNK is inhibited by LAIR-1 through an ITIM-dependent signal, as demonstrated by the use of specific ITIM-binding peptides; importantly, this inhibitory signal is missing when LAIR-1 is not expressed as occurs in HR CLL. Moreover, engagement of LAIR-1 blocks constitutive and sIgM-induced Akt phosphorylation, besides nuclear factor kappa-B nuclear translocation, and prevents CLL division. These results suggest that CLL lacking  LAIR-1 may miss one of the molecular mechanisms controlling B-cell activation and proliferation."
3071	"B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the most common adult leukaemia that follows an extremely variable clinical course. Several important prognostic  parameters defining pathogenic and clinical subgroups of CLL have been identified and validated recently. The biological significance of immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy  chain variable region gene (IgHV) mutational status and associated ZAP-70 over-expression, CD38 and chromosomal aberrations have enabled to identify patients at high risk for early disease progression and inferior survival. Moreover, studies of the B cell antigen receptor (BCR) structure and receptor signalling have been most helpful in revealing some new aspects of the biology of this disease. In particular, the analysis of IG genes has revealed that the expressed IgHV/IgKV/IgLV gene repertoires of CLL cells differ from those of normal B cells. A further unique feature of the CLL IG repertoire is the existence of subsets of cases with "stereotyped" BCRs. Accumulating molecular and phenotypic data support the notion that CLL development and evolution is not a simple scholastic event and strongly indicates a role for antigen in driving the  cell of origin for at least some subsets of CLL cases."
3072	"In chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), mutation/deletion of TP53 is strongly associated with early disease progression, resistance to chemotherapy and short patient survival. Consequently, there is a pressing need to develop novel treatment protocols for this high-risk patient group. The present study was performed to evaluate Hsp90 inhibition as a possible therapeutic approach for such patients. Primary CLL cells of defined ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)/p53 status were incubated with the Hsp90 inhibitor geldanamycin (GA) and analysed by western blotting for the expression of p53, p21, MDM2 and Akt. GA downregulated overexpressed mutant p53 protein (an oncogene) and upregulated wild-type (wt) p53 (a tumour suppressor). The upregulation of wt p53 by GA was independent of ATM and was accompanied by downregulation of Akt and the active form of MDM2, indicating a possible mechanism. GA also produced a p53/ATM-independent increase in the levels of p21-a potent inducer of cell-cycle  arrest. In-vitro cytotoxicity studies showed that GA killed cultured CLL cells in a dose- and time-dependent fashion irrespective of their p53/ATM status and more  effectively than normal blood mononuclear cells. In summary, our findings reveal  important consequences of inhibiting Hsp90 in CLL cells and strongly support the  therapeutic evaluation of Hsp90 inhibitors in poor-prognosis patients with p53 defects."
3073	"CD20 is an important therapeutic target in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). In order to examine the relationship between CD20 expression and cytogenetic abnormalities, we correlated the fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH) genetic subtype of 510 treatment-naïve patients with CD20 expression as measured by quantitative flow cytometry. Patients were classified using the Dohner hierarchial classification. The median numbers of CD20 antigen sites by FISH subtypes were: 17p- (n = 26), 9341 per cell; 11q- (n = 42), 5886 per cell; +12 (n = 93), 23 603 per cell; negative FISH (n = 153), 8828 per cell; and 13q- (n = 196), 10 781 per cell. Compared to cases with negative FISH, 11q- cases had significantly lower CD20 expression (P = 0.001), and +12 cases had significantly  higher CD20 expression (P < 0.001). The significance of trisomy 12 and high CD20  expression was maintained after multivariate analysis accounting for other disease characteristics. Fifty-nine patients received the combination of rituximab and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor as frontline therapy; responses were observed in 13 of 14 (93%) patients with +12, in two of four (50%) patients with 11q-, and in 30 of 41 (73%) patients with negative FISH, 13q- or 17p- CLL. Leukemic CD20 expression differed significantly between FISH subtypes. Patients with trisomy 12 CLL showed strong leukemic cell CD20 expression and had a high rate of response to rituximab-based therapy."
3074	"More than 15,000 autologous stem cell transplants (ASCT) were reported to European Blood and Bone Marrow Transplantation registry in 2005, most commonly for multiple myeloma (MM) and lymphomas. In 98% of the cases high-dose therapy was supported by blood stem cells. Thus stem cell mobilization and collection are integral parts of ASCT protocols. We give here a practical approach to blood stem cell mobilization and collection in patients with various lymphoproliferative diseases. While mobilization is usually easy and straightforward in patients with MM, about 10-20% of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or Hodgkin's lymphoma are hard-to-mobilize. There seems to be even more disease-specific issues in blood stem cell mobilization in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and in patients with light chain amyloidosis. We also discuss options in hard-to-mobilize patients."
3076	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is the commonest form of leukaemia in Europe and North America, and mainly, though not exclusively, affects older individuals. It  has a very variable course, with survival ranging from months to decades. Major progress has been made in identification of molecular and cellular markers that could predict disease progression in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. In particular, the mutational profile of immunoglobulin genes and some cytogenetic abnormalities are important predictors of prognosis. However, these advances have raised new questions about the biology, prognosis, and management of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, some of which are addressed here. In particular, we discuss how better understanding of the function of the B-cell receptor, the nature of genetic lesions, and the balance between proliferation and apoptosis have affected our ability to assess prognosis and to manage chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Available treatments generally induce remission, although  nearly all patients relapse, and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia remains an incurable disease. Advances in molecular biology have enhanced our understanding  of the pathophysiology of the disease and, together with development of new therapeutic agents, have made management of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia more rational and more effective than previously. Unfortunately, we know of no way that chronic lymphocytic leukaemia can be prevented. Early detection is practised widely, but seemingly makes no difference to the patient's eventual outcome."
3077	"BACKGROUND: The lymphoreticular system plays a major role in both the innate and  adaptive immune responses. This study reviews retrospectively cases of lymphoreticular diseases seen at a tertiary institution in Nigeria. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a retrospective study in which biopsies from the bone marrow, spleen, lymph nodes and extranodal lymphoid tissues reported within  a period of 16 years were reviewed with respect to age, sex and pathological diagnosis. Statistical analysis was performed for differences in proportion using Chi square by SPSS version 12. RESULTS: Nine hundred and forty four cases comprising 559 biopsies from lymph nodes and extranodal lymphoid tissues, 272 bone marrow biopsies and 113 spleen biopsies were studied. Non Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and tuberculosis were the most common lesions in lymph nodes and extranodal lymphoid tissues. The axillary  and cervical nodes accounted for most cases of metastasis. Breast cancer accounted for the majority of metastasis to lymph nodes. The most common pathological changes in bone marrow were NHL and reactive hyperplasia. Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) had the highest mean age, which was significantly higher than in those with NHL (p=.001, 95% confidence interval -27.91 to -7.76). The most common finding in the spleen was splenic rupture and haemoperitoneum from road traffic accident. CONCLUSION: NHL and tuberculosis should be high on the list of differential diagnosis of lymphadenopathy in Nigerians. Whereas trauma from RTA was the major  reason for splenectomy in Nigerians, in the elderly splenic biopsy would likely show CLL."
3078	"BACKGROUND: Development and growth of extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphomas (eMZBCLs) of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) type are thought to be highly dependent on Helicobacter pylori and autoantigens. Receptors mediating these effects are not characterised so far. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) recognise  bacterial proteins and autoantigens, which results in inflammatory reactions and  influences tumour development and growth. MATERIALS AND METHODS: TLR4, 5 and 9 expressions were evaluated by immunohistology and confocal microscopy in gastric eMZBCL in comparison to other  lymphomas infiltrating the stomach. RESULTS: TLR4 was exclusively expressed on the cell surface in all eMZBCL (n = 19) and not in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL, n = 12) or mantle cell lymphoma (MCL, n = 10). TLR5 was strongly expressed in CLL and weak in some eMZBCL (15 of 19), but not in MCL. TLR4, 5 and 9 were negative in all the three lymphoma entities. CONCLUSIONS: Exclusive TLR4 expression may enable eMZBCL to interact with H. pylori and autoantigens. Blockade of TLR4 might be a new approach for therapy of  eMZBCL of MALT type."
3079	"Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) treated with a combination of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab show a high response rate. However, only a poor response is observed following rituximab monotherapy. The use of chemo-immunotherapy is often associated with haematological and infectious complications. Thus, an antibody with an enhanced ability to kill CLL cells could lead to better clinical responses to antibody monotherapy and the possibility of  lowering drug doses during chemo-immunotherapy. We generated a chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody (mAb), EMAB-6, which has a low fucose content. Apoptosis and  complement activities for EMAB-6 were similar to those seen for rituximab. By contrast, EMAB-6 mAb showed improved Fcgamma receptor IIIA (FcgammaRIIIA)/CD16 binding and FcgammaRIIIA-dependent effector functions. It induced a higher in vitro antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity against CLL cells and a higher FcgammaRIIIA-mediated interleukin-2 production by FcgammaRIIIA(+) Jurkat cells in the presence of CLL cells at both low and maximally saturating concentrations. Comparative studies between CLL and lymphoma cells coated with EMAB-6 or rituximab indicated that the difference of efficacy was more pronounced at low doses and when target cells expressed fewer CD20 molecules. Thus, EMAB-6 mAb represents a promising drug candidate for the treatment of CLL by inducing a strong cytotoxicity against tumour cells that express low CD20 levels."
3081	"We explored the influence of morphology on geographic differences in 5-year survival for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) diagnosed in 1990-1994 and followed for 5years: 16,955 cases from 27 EUROCARE-3 cancer registries, and 22,713 cases from  9 US SEER registries. Overall 5-year relative survival was 56.1% in EUROCARE west, 47.1% in EUROCARE east and 56.3% in SEER. Relative excess risk (RER) of death was 1.05 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01-1.10) in EUROCARE west, 1.52 (95% CI 1.44-1.60) in EUROCARE east (SEER reference). Excess risk of death was significantly above reference (diffuse B lymphoma) for Burkitt's and NOS lymphoma; not different for lymphoblastic and other T-cell; significantly below reference (in the order of decreasing relative excess risk) for NHL NOS, mantle cell/centrocytic, lymphoplasmacytic, follicular, small lymphocytic/chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, other specified NHL and cutaneous morphologies. Interpretation of marked variation in survival with morphology is complicated by  classification inconsistencies. The completeness and standardisation of cancer registry morphology data needs to be improved."
3082	"Chromosome aberrations are frequently found in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), and specific chromosome aberrations identify poor prognostic subgroups. Almost all the aberrations identified in B-CLL involve loci where genes with a role in the regulation of centrosome duplication have been mapped. Centrosome aberrations have been described as a possible cause of numerical chromosome abnormalities in both solid and haematological tumours. However, little is known about the possible role of centrosome aberrations in B-CLL. To investigate whether centrosome aberrations do occur in B-CLL and correlate with cytogenetically defined prognostic subgroups, we examined a set of 64 B-CLL samples by immunofluorescent staining. B-CLL cases differed significantly from controls in the mean frequency of cells with centrosome aberrations, while no difference was found between subgroups with or without specific chromosome aberrations. Our results indicated that although centrosome aberrations were a common feature in B-CLL, they did not represent a reliable prognostic marker."
3083	"Based on the concept that the tumorogenesis in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia comprises both an initial, inherited mutation and subsequent somatic mutations, the pleiotypic diversity of familial chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and related malignant lymphoproliferative disorders is generally explained by a repertoire of monoallelic polygenes in the initial mutation. Epigenetic genomic imprinting is a likely mechanism behind of the asynchroneous replicating monoallelic polygenes which is discussed in the light of pleiotrophy and birth order effect. Furthermore, it is discussed that one possible mechanism available for the epigenetic transfer of these genes could be the physiological pregnancy-related microchimerism between mother and fetus."
3084	"A 70-year old Caucasian man with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia developed trichodysplasia spinulosa 2 months after ceasing chemotherapy. Histological features characteristic to this condition include dilated and enlarged hair follicles, hyperplastic hair bulbs, hyperplasia of inner root sheath cells with numerous large, eosinophilic, trichohyaline granules, and hypercornification. Although he was in remission for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, lesions were slowly progressive 15 months after cessation of chemotherapy. We also describe a  painless pull-test where spicules can be easily plucked and assessed microscopically for inner root sheath keratinization, or observed with surface microscopy in a clinic setting."
3085	"Some reports suggest that blood stem cell mobilization is difficult in a proportion of patients with CLL. We evaluated this issue in a large cohort of CLL patients. One hundred and twenty-eight patients with CLL underwent blood stem cell mobilization during 1995-2005 in Finland. Ninety-five percent of the patients had received fludarabine. The most common mobilization regimen was intermediate-dose CY plus G-CSF (90 patients, 70%). At least 2 x 10(6)/kg CD34+ cells were collected after the first mobilization attempt in 83 patients (65%), whereas 45 patients (35%) failed to reach this collection target. No differences  were observed between these patient groups with regard to age, time from the diagnosis to mobilization, number of previous treatment lines, number of fludarabine courses, time from the last fludarabine-containing chemotherapy to mobilization, disease status or degree of marrow infiltration. Patients who failed collection had platelets <100 x 10(9)/l more commonly at the time of mobilization (30 vs 4%, P<0.001). A significant proportion of patients with CLL were difficult to mobilize. Adequate marrow function including platelet counts >100 x 10(9)/l seem to be important factors in terms of successful blood stem cell collection."
3086	"The choice of 98% sequence homology for immunoglobulin heavy chains to distinguish between mutated and unmutated versions of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) was arbitrary and was chosen to account for supposed polymorphisms. Some authors chose 97% or even 95%. This study examined survival curves for cohorts of patients with varying degrees of sequence homology. All patients with <97% homology behaved as if mutated. Those with 97-98% homology were more aggressive than the mutated cases, but less aggressive than those with  >98% homology."
3087	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is caused by the abnormal accumulation  of non-functional B-cells in peripheral blood and bone marrow. However, the precise aetiology and mechanism of the disease are unclear. Recently, progress has been made in the identification of both the genetic deficiencies and environmental factors that may underlie CLL. This has provided some clues to the  nature of the disease, but no definitive cures. Although treatment has increased  remission time, at present the disease is not curable by conventional therapy. Further studies of the pathogenesis of CLL are needed, as are the development of  suitable cell lines and animal models in which to study it. This review summarises the most recent progress in CLL with emphasis on molecular events and  possible implications in therapy."
3090	"BACKGROUND: High purity of tumour samples is a necessity for accurate genetic and expression analysis and is usually achieved by positive selection in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). RESULTS: We adapted a bifunctional rosette-based antibody cocktail for negative selection of B-cells for isolating CLL cells from peripheral blood (PB). PB samples from CLL patients were split into aliquots. One aliquot of each sample was enriched by density gradient centrifugation (DGC), while the other aliquot of each sample was incubated with an antibody cocktail for B-cell enrichment prior to DGC (RS+DGC). The purity of CLL cells after DGC averaged 74.1% (range: 15.9 -  97.4%). Using RS+DGC, the purity averaged 93.8% (range: 80.4 - 99.4%) with 23 of  29 (79%) samples showing CLL purities above 90%. RNA extracted from enriched CLL  cells was of appropriately high quality for microarray analysis. CONCLUSION: This study confirms the use of a bifunctional rosette-based antibody  cocktail as an effective method for the purification of CLL cells from peripheral blood."
3091	"INTRODUCTION: Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) have progressive  immunodeficiency and infection is the commonest cause of death. This review seeks to identify the extent of the abnormality, its cause, clinical significance and any possible remedy. SOURCES OF DATA: TJH has studied CLL for the past 40 years and has scanned or read every paper he could find published on the topic since 1970 and most of those of historical importance published before that date. He has read around the subject, covering relevant articles on immunology, cell biology, oncology and genetics. Furthermore, he has attended most major meetings dealing with CLL in this time and has written many reviews to update the state of knowledge about the topic. He receives weekly updates of papers published on CLL from PubMed and Science Direct with the keywords 'chronic lymphocytic leukaemia'. AREAS OF AGREEMENT: The immunodeficiency chiefly manifests as hypogammaglobulinaemia but involves all elements of the immune system. It is caused by the interpolation of tumour cells among immunological cells and mediated by bi-directional cell contact and secretion of cytokines, which both sustain and invigorate the tumour and suppress immunity. CLL treatment generally  makes the immunodeficiency worse. Intravenous immunoglobulin is clinically effective but not cost-effective, while prophylactic antibiotics are useful in appropriate circumstances. Vaccination against infectious disease is usually ineffective. AREAS OF CONTROVERSY: Exactly how the presence of tumour cells in the immune organs renders the patient immunodeficient is controversial as is the clinical significance of minor degrees of immunodeficiency in early or indolent cases. The immunosuppressive effect of most forms of treatment is agreed, but how much this  should figure in the choice of treatment is a matter of dispute. GROWING POINTS: The study of tumour-stromal interactions is an area of intense research. AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: There has been little done to develop better vaccination strategies in patients with CLL, and although effective antimicrobials have been developed to protect against opportunistic infections, many are both expensive and inconvenient. More work is necessary to define precisely which patients should be offered them and when."
3094	"Recent advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis and biology of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) have identified and verified the prognostic significance of a large number of biomarkers, including immunoglobulin gene mutation status, expression of ZAP70 and CD38 and cytogenetics, which have all been verified as having powerful prognostic significance in determining time from initial diagnosis to requirement for therapy. Now that poor prognostic markers can be identifed, the challenge is to determine what should be done with these data. It is important that all available biomarkers be measured in ongoing clinical trials so that the optimal therapy can be selected for patients in particular prognostic subgroups. It is also possible that in the future poor prognostic markers can be used to determine whether a patient should be offered early therapy rather than a 'watch and wait' approach until symptoms appear. The  results of ongoing and planned trials investigating the value of prognostic biomarkers in CLL should allow the design of specific therapies for different groups of patients. However, until this information is available, poor prognosis  markers should not be used to determine whether a patient with CLL should be treated or whether therapy should be altered."
3095	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is characterized by clonal growth and accumulation of mature lymphoid cells due to disturbance in genetically regulated form of cell death called apoptosis. The intrinsic mechanism of apoptosis is controlled by Bcl-2 family proteins. Purine nucleoside analogues induce the apoptosis in cells in a state of quiescence. The aim of the study was  to assess expression of selected Bcl-2 family proteins in neoplastic infiltration in bone marrow in patients with B-CLL treated with nucleoside analogues. The study comprised examination of bone marrow obtained routinely by trephine biopsy  from 18 patients with B-CLL diagnosed before administration of purine nucleoside  analogues treatment and after its completion. Expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-x and Bax  proteins was examined. Lymphoid cells in bone marrow were present in all patients before administration of treatment. After treatment in two patients bone marrow was infiltrated in diffuse pattern, whereas other patients presented nodular pattern of infiltration. The difference between stage of infiltration before and  after treatment was statistically significant (p<0.002). High percentage of infiltration cells with positive anti Bcl-2 reaction from 42.0% in one patient to 85.33+/-3.06% in four patients before treatment was observed. After treatment percentage of infiltration cells with positive anti Bcl-2 antibody reaction was from 33.0+/-18.38% in two patients to 99.0% in one patient. Positive correlation  between stage of infiltration and expression of Bcl-2 protein was confirmed before and after treatment. Such correlations were not observed in case of Bax and Bcl-x. Strong staining of immunohistochemical reaction of cells in lymphoid infiltration with Bcl-2 antibody was confirmed. There was a difference between Bcl-/Bax ratio before and after treatment. Immunohistochemical assessment of expression of Bcl-2 family proteins in cells of lymphoid infiltration in bone marrow of patients with CLL is an important method in detection of minimal residual disease (MRD) after treatment."
3096	"Recently identified biological risk factors in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) include ZAP-70 and CD38 expression. The present study was conducted to clarify whether a combined analysis could improve predictive impact  of these two parameters. We examined the expression of ZAP-70 and CD38 by flow cytometry method in 217 newly diagnosed, consecutive, unselected and well characterized B-CLL patients in relation to laboratory parameters and clinical outcome. We confirmed that both ZAP-70 as well as CD38 were independent of prognostic factors. There was a significant correlation between the percentage of leukemic cells positive for ZAP-70 and the percentage of CD38+CD19+ cells (R=0.629; p=0.000001). Combined analysis of ZAP-70 and CD38 showed concordant results in 158/217 patients (72.8%), while in 59 patients the results were discordant (27.2%). A mean treatment free survival (TFS) was the longest in ZAP-70-CD38-patients (45.6 months, comparing to 13.6 months in ZAP-70+CD38+ group). Also a mean overall survival was the longest in ZAP-70-CD38- patients (224.7 months compared to 77.9 months in ZAP-70+CD38+ patients)."
3097	"Various gastrointestinal infiltrations have been described in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Here, we report a 69-year-old man with CLL and anaemia in whom the macroscopic finding of colonoscopy was normal, but the histological specimens revealed lymphocytic leukemia in ileum and in colon. If a  CLL patient has any symptoms suggesting a possible GI manifestation of the haematologic disease or anaemia not explained by bone marrow infiltration or hemolysis, the diagnostic evaluation should include endoscopies with adequate biopsies."
3098	"Myeloid and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (MDC, PDC) play a key role in the initiation of immune responses. We found a reduction of both DC subsets in 42 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) at diagnosis (P<0.0001 and 0.0001 vs. controls, respectively), likely related to the high secretion of CCL22 and CXCL12 (P=0.04 and 0.008 vs. controls, respectively) by leukaemic cells. However, CD14+ monocytes from CLL patients could give rise to functional IL-12p70-secreting monocyte-derived DCs, capable of inducing a type 1 polarization immunostimulatory profile. These monocyte-derived DCs from CLL patients efficiently migrate in response to CCL19/MIP-3beta chemokine, suggesting that functional autologous DCs can be generated for immunotherapeutic purposes to circumvent DC defects in CLL."
3099	"The protein tyrosine kinase zeta-chain associated protein kinase (ZAP70), normally expressed in T cells and a subset of B cells, is solely expressed in poor prognosis chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and implicated in enhanced B cell receptor signalling. As a result, the expression of this protein provides an ideal prognostic marker for the disease. A previous study has shown differential  CpG methylation of a 5' region of ZAP70 in leukaemic lymphoid cells, although no  further epigenetic studies have been reported. Further investigation into the expression of ZAP70 may therefore provide targets for therapies."
3101	"B-Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is a monoclonal malignancy characterized  by an accumulation of terminally differentiated small and anergic B lymphocytes in the blood, bone marrow and other tissues. CD23 antigen, a trans-membrane glycoprotein, promotes the activation and proliferation of normal B lymphocytes and has an important role in the process of malignant transformation in B-CLL. This retrospective cohort study of 77 consecutive newly diagnosed B-CLL patients, 43 males, 34 females, median age of 62 years, examined CD23 expression and correlations with clinical parameters. CD23+ was negatively correlated with pro-lymphocyte infiltration of the bone marrow (P<0.01) and peripheral blood lymphocyte counts (P<0.001). Lower CD23 expression was correlated with lower serum immunoglobulin levels (P<0.05), especially IgG; while greater CD23 expression was positively correlated with higher CD5 levels. B-CLL patients with  a percentage of CD23+ lymphocytes >40% had longer survival (92.8 months) than those expressing <40% (35.3 months) (P=0.001). CD23 is not uniformly expressed by lymphocytes in B-CLL patients, and the differences in expression are dependent on a number of clinical parameters, including the peripheral blood lymphocyte count  and the degree of pro-lymphocyte infiltration of the bone marrow. CD23 expression is significantly decreased in patients with extremely high lymphocyte counts (PBL counts of >100 x 10(9)/l) and in the advanced stages of disease."
3102	"In clinical research, we are often interested in assessing how a biomarker changes with time, and whether it could be used as a surrogate marker when evaluating the efficacy of a new drug. However, when the longitudinal marker is correlated with survival, linear mixed models for longitudinal data may be inappropriate. By contrast, it may be possible to recover information from the so-called informative censoring by modelling both the longitudinal information and the survival process. The objective of this work is to jointly model longitudinal and survival data to assess surrogacy. Two competitive modelling strategies were used, either a multistate model summarizing the course of longitudinal data and occurrence of disease progression or death, or a joint longitudinal-survival model. We present both analyses based on a case study from  two randomized clinical trials that enrolled patients with stage A chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) in order to obtain further insights into these different approaches."
3104	"BACKGROUND: Little is known about the aetiology of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  (CLL). The family medical history is a "genomic tool" capturing interactions of genetic susceptibility, shared environment and common behaviours. METHODS: A cohort of 66 consecutives patients with CLL (probands) was studied in  a medical oncology practice (W.W.) from 1981 until 2005. A German version of the  NCI medical history questionnaire for cancer aetiology was used. Familial clustering analysis was done by comparing the proportion of specific tumours in the first degree relatives of the CLL practice cohort with corresponding proportions of population-based cancer registry data. RESULTS: 18 (41%) male and 5 (23%) female CLL probands had multiple malignancies, e.g. 2 meningiomas, 7 and 19 years after diagnosis of CLL. 46 (12%) first degree  relatives had malignancies with an excess of CLL. Other conspicuous familial associations are CLL with malignancies of the upper GI tract (oesophagus, stomach) and of the nervous system. CONCLUSION: 1. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia clusters in some families like any other disease. Predisposition genes should be searched. 2. Cancer prevention and  early detection should be continued in CLL patients because of their longevity and high risk for multiple malignancies. 3. The overrepresentation of upper GI malignancies in first degree relatives of CLL patients calls for targeted oesophago-gastroscopy screening studies."
3105	"B cells as autoantibody producing cells are major players in several autoimmune chronic inflammatory diseases (ACIDs). In some particular settings (i.e. Sjogren's syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis), the activated B cells could undergo malignant clonal expansion. Chronic infections by lymphotropic viruses (hepatitis C virus, Epstein Barr Virus, Herpes 6 and 8 viruses) could amplify the activation process by inducing antiapoptotic signals that lead to a longer survival of B cell subsets. This might then lead, through multiple oncogenic events, to benign  first and malignant thereafter clonal B cell expansion. Understanding how the B cell are activated, how the B cell receptor activation can be maintained under control, which check-points could be deregulated and lead to a persistent activation is of crucial importance in benign and malignant diseases. The evidence suggests that the B cells faulty check-points are different in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, in cryoglobulinemia, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus  erythematosus and systemic sclerosis."
3107	"Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) is a recently described laboratory finding  in otherwise healthy individuals. In MBL, a light chain-restricted, clonal B-cell population, often with a chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) phenotype, is identified by flow cytometry. Although the prognostic significance remains unclear, there is an increased incidence in ageing populations and those with a family history of CLL. During the past decade of MBL study, three families have come to our attention in which prospective sibling haematopoietic stem cell donors were found to have an MBL. These families raise complex bioethical issues  with regard to disclosure of research data, eligibility for clinical trials and potential donor transfer of MBL. These issues are explored in this report. Identification of MBL among prospective sibling transplant donors will become a common occurrence in transplant practice as transplantation is increasingly offered to older individuals and those with CLL."
3108	"Multicolour flow cytometric analysis enabled the identification of monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL), frequently resembling chronic lymphocytic leukaemia,  at a rather high frequency in peripheral blood (PB) samples from an elderly population. PB T lymphocytes from 103 otherwise healthy subjects >65 years of age and 51 younger donors (<65 years) were analysed. Besides CD4(+) and CD8(+) single positive (SP) cells, CD4(+)CD8(+) double positive (DP) mature T lymphocytes were  present in both series and could be further distinguished into CD4(high)CD8(low)  and CD4(low)CD8(high) subsets. An age-dependent increase of both DP T-cell subsets was observed, while SP T cells remained stable throughout life. Flow cytometry and polymerase chain reaction analysis of the TRBV expression profiles  showed the presence of a TRBV restriction within CD4(+)CD8(+) DP cells in more than half (53/103; 55.3%) of the individuals >65 years of age, regardless the actual number of DP T cells observed. Clonal expansions were more prominent within the CD4(high)CD8(low) subset, accounting for most circulating DP clones (47/103; 45.6%). A few cases showed more than one (up to three) monoclonal expansion. Clonal CD4(low)CD8(high) DP T-lymphocyte expansions were detected in only 10/103 samples (9.7%) and showed a close phenotypic similarity to the rare T-cell large granular lymphocyte leukaemias. The similarities between DP clones and MBL in the elderly may help to better understand the mechanisms of immunosenescence and their relationships with the development of lymphoproliferative disorders."
3109	"Families with multiple individuals affected with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and other related B-cell tumours have been described in the literature. Familial CLL does not appear to differ from sporadic CLL in terms of prognostic markers and clinical outcome. Large, population-based case-control and cohort studies have also shown significant familial aggregation of CLL and related conditions, including non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphoma. Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis also aggregates in CLL families. However, the clinical implication  of familial aggregation is minimal given the overall rarity of CLL. Linkage studies have been conducted in high-risk CLL families to screen the whole genome  for loci that contribute to susceptibility but no gene mutations have yet been identified by this method. Association studies of candidate genes have implicated immune function and other genes but more studies are needed to verify these findings. The ability to conduct large scale genomic studies will play an important role in detecting susceptibility genes for CLL over the next few years  and thereby help to delineate aetiological pathways."
3110	"Cytometry has become important in the detection and determination of risk of monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis; methodology has changed, and will continue to change, as cytometric technology changes."
3111	"Common genetic variants are thought to increase the risk of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), and case-control studies provide an approach to detect these variants. There have been multiple candidate gene studies published to date, but  relatively few disease pathway studies or large genomic association studies. We summarize the results of these previous studies, as well as present results from  our recent large pathway study of 9412 single nucleotide polymorphisms from 1253  immunity and inflammation genes in a study of 126 CLL cases and 484 frequency-matched controls. Several promising genes have been identified as susceptibility genes for risk of CLL across all of these association studies. However, a number of candidate gene studies have not been replicated in follow-up studies, whereas the results from disease pathway and large genomic studies have  yet to be replicated in an independent sample. The challenge of future studies of this type will be overcoming study design issues, including definition of CLL, sample size limitations and multiple testing issues."
3112	"A CD5(+)23(+) monoclonal B-cell population is detectable in approximately 3% of the general adult population. The phenotype of the monoclonal CD5(+)23(+) B cells is identical to chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with respect to a large number of proteins in addition to the standard diagnostic markers used to identify CLL. Studies in CLL families and direct assessment of genetic features indicate a close biological association between indolent CLL and the CLL-phenotype cells detected in individuals with a normal blood count. Patients with a CLL-phenotype monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) often have increasing  CLL cell counts with time and some progress to a stage requiring treatment. Analysis of intraclonal variation in the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene suggests a process of clonal diversification rather than clonal selection in the early stages of disease progression. CLL-phenotype MBL is detectable in approximately 10% of cases referred for investigation of a lymphocytosis and future studies should be directed towards the detection of factors which identify MBL patients at risk of disease progression."
3114	"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been linked to the initiation and progression of chronic  lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The main molecular alterations are represented by variations in gene expression, usually mild and with consequences for a vast number of target protein-coding genes. Recent studies have shown that miRNAs are  the main candidates for the elusive class of CLL predisposing genes. These discoveries could be exploited for the development of useful markers for diagnosis and prognosis, as well as for the development of new RNA-based cancer therapies."
3115	"Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) has been the subject of more intensive investigation for the last 10 years. The increased presence of MBL in unaffected, first-degree relatives with familial chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) suggest  that it is surrogate marker for early disease. In normal population studies, MBL  is found to be increased in ageing subjects. Consensus criteria for the diagnosis of MBL have been proposed. The differential diagnosis has been further clarified  and the prevalence of MBL is most prominent in the elderly. The aetiology of MBL  is unknown but probably involves immune mechanism of senescence or altered response. Environmental health studies suggest that exposure to certain toxins may lead to MBL but further work is needed. MBL is a precursor to CLL but may also regress, remain stable or progress to clinical CLL."
3119	"The pathogenesis of B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders in general and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in particular appears to involve dysfunctional regulation of humoral and cellular immunity with the subsequent development of genetic aberrations in B cells. In theory, either component may arise de novo or  may be influenced by environmental exposures including infectious agents, antigens, genotoxic chemicals, or radiation. As an intermediary within the exposure-disease continuum, monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis may be a helpful biomarker for teasing out these various contributions to risk. This article introduces a series of papers that resulted from an International Workshop held in May 2007 entitled 'Monoclonal B-cell Lymphocytosis and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: Environmental and Genetic Risk Factors'. Research efforts, such as those described in this issue, should lead to improved interventions, more predictive biomarkers, more effective treatments, and a greater appreciation of how the immune system functions over the entire human lifespan."
3120	"Although the familial aspect of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) has been appreciated for decades, it is only with the recent confluence of improved molecular and gene technologies and world-wide collaborative networks that accelerated progress has become apparent. In this summary we highlight selected themes in the genetics of CLL emphasizing the opportunities and challenges of this malignancy."
3121	"Disease progression occurs in over 1% of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis and early stage chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients every year therefore regular monitoring is indicated. We assessed the efficacy of an outreach service to replace clinic monitoring using local phlebotomy with central haematologist review of laboratory parameters and symptoms identified by a patient self-assessment questionnaire. The service was used by 299 patients for 2 years and provided accurate monitoring, improved patient satisfaction, support for primary care and reduced the burden on haematology clinics without an increase in inter-assessment admissions due to disease progression."
3122	"Monoclonal B-cell populations have been detected in the peripheral blood of apparently healthy individuals by flow cytometry. In 2005, the term monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) was proposed to describe these findings. MBL may be immunophenotypically similar to chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and, like CLL, the prevalence is higher in males and older individuals. We studied the prevalence of MBL in blood donors from the Midwestern United States. Samples from 5141 donors were examined and seven (0.14%) were found to have immunophenotypic characteristics of MBL or CLL. Immunoglobulin heavy chain analysis yielded monoclonality or oligoclonality. Prior and subsequent to the study, an additional undetermined number of blood donors were screened and seven of these expressed immunophenotypic characteristics of MBL or CLL. We thus found a total of 14 healthy blood donors with monoclonal expansions of B-lymphocyte populations. Of these, 12 were presumptively classified as MBL and two as CLL. All but two of the donors were male; the mean age was 59 years. The clinical importance of these findings with regard to transfusion medicine has not been established."
3123	"Literature on the role of chemicals in the development of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis in humans is sparse. This research is complicated by the rarity of these outcomes and the different disease classifications used over time. Several studies have noted excesses of CLL among  farmers and a few have pointed to specific chemicals. Reports suggesting elevated CLL rates in the rubber and petroleum industries point to a possible role for solvents and other chemicals. The few studies that focus on specific chemicals suggest that CLL should be more carefully evaluated in relation to possible exposure to chemicals and solvents, particularly for benzene and butadiene. Pooled analyses of CLL studies within consortia offer an opportunity to investigate the possible aetiological role of chemical exposures with improved statistical power."
3124	"Molecular profiling may lead to a better understanding of a disease. This knowledge is especially important in malignancies, where multiple alterations are required during the progression from premalignant to malignant stages. Such information can be useful for the development of novel biomarkers that allow the  prediction of a clinical course, response to treatment or early detection. Molecular data is also utilized to develop targeted therapies. Moreover, gene defects identified in profiling studies will help to understand the molecular pathways disrupted in the disease. This review provides an overview of molecular  profiling approaches in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We will describe our current understanding of genetic alterations in CLL, the use of familial CLL for  the identification of predisposing mutations, and the search for epigenetic alterations in CLL."
3125	"The presentation, clinical course and prognosis for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is diverse and strategies for therapy reflect this variability. Staging of  the disease has assisted in deciding treatment options and more recently the cytogenetic, molecular and surrogate markers of the immunoglobulin heavy chain mutational status, CD38 and ZAP-70, have assisted in further risk stratification. Chemotherapy has been the mainstay of interventional therapy when required and the two most important classes of agents in the treatment of CLL are nucleoside analogues and alkylating agents. Combining these two groups of agents has significantly improved prognosis in this disease. More recently a number of novel agents have been applied to patients with CLL to determine if they represent better therapy. However, allogeneic stem cell transplantation offers perhaps the  only realistic chance of a cure in this disease. Clinical trials are still needed to determine the timing and role of this promising treatment modality in the treatment of CLL and, where possible, combined with the emerging awareness of the disease biology, related biological markers and prognostic indicators."
3126	"Treatment options for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) are limited and eventually fail because of the development of toxicities or drug resistance. Thus, identification of new therapeutic strategies and targets is a high priority. The semisynthetic geldanamycin derivative 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG) inhibits heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) binding to client proteins, thereby leading to their degradation. We demonstrate that at biologically active and clinically attainable levels (1 mumol/l), 17-AAG treatment of CLL B cells in vitro causes modest apoptosis as well as decreased AKT protein levels. Given the potential activation of AKT following antibody therapy in CLL, we evaluated the combination of 17-AAG and rituximab. These agents produced synergistic cytotoxicity of CLL cells in vitro.  However, rituximab-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity was modestly reduced with 17-AAG, and complement-dependent cytotoxicity was not altered. We conclude that the combination of Hsp90 inhibitors with therapeutic antibodies, such as rituximab may represent a novel strategy to enhance therapeutic response  in CLL. Furthermore, our data indicates that AKT and Hsp70 protein levels are relevant pharmacodynamic endpoints to monitor the in vivo effect of 17-AAG therapy."
3127	"The 2001 World Health Organization classification scheme considers B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) in an aggregate  category (CLL/SLL) because of shared clinicopathological features. We have estimated age-adjusted incidence rates (IRs) of CLL and SLL in the population-based Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results Program in the United States to analyse patterns of CLL and SLL separately and jointly. Age-standardized to the 2000 US population, overall IRs were 3.83 per 100 000 person-years for CLL (n = 15 676) and 1.31 for SLL (n = 5382) during 1993-2004. Incidence of the combined entity, CLL/SLL, was 90% higher among males compared to females, and the male:female IR ratio was significantly higher for CLL (1.98) than for SLL (1.67). CLL/SLL IRs were 25% and 77% lower among Blacks and Asian/Pacific Islanders, respectively, compared to Whites. A significant reporting delay was evident for CLL but not for SLL, so that CLL/SLL temporal trends must be interpreted cautiously. CLL and SLL IRs increased exponentially with age among all gender/race groups, with CLL IRs increasing more steeply with  advancing age than SLL. Avenues of future research include assessment of delayed- and under-reporting to cancer registries and exploration of race, gender, and age effects in epidemiological studies."
3128	"Mouse models are valuable tools in the study of human chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The New Zealand Black (NZB) strain is a naturally occurring model of late-onset CLL characterized by B-cell hyperproliferation and autoimmunity early in life, followed by progression to CLL. Other genetically engineered models of CLL that have been developed include (NZB x NZW) F1 mice engineered to express IL5, mice expressing human TCL1A, and mice overexpressing both BCL2 and a tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor. The applicability to human CLL varies with each model, suggesting that CLL is a multifactorial disease. Our work with the de novo NZB model has revealed many similarities to the human situation, particularly familial CLL. In NZB, the malignant clones express CD5, zap-70, and have chromosomal instability and germline Ig sequence. We also identified a point mutation in the 3'-flanking sequence of Mirn16-1, which resulted in decreased levels of the microRNA, miR-16  in lymphoid tissue. Exogenous restoration of miR-16 to an NZB malignant B-1 cell  line resulted in cell cycle alterations, suggesting that the altered expression of Mirn15a/16-1 is an important molecular lesion in CLL. Future studies utilizing the NZB mouse could ascertain the role of environmental triggers, such as low dose radiation and organic chemicals in the augmentation of a pre-existing propensity to develop CLL."
3129	"Immune-mediated pathways have been recognized to be of importance in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We assessed a broad variety  of immune-related and inflammatory conditions and subsequent CLL development among 4 million adult male veterans admitted to VA hospitals. We identified 3,680 CLL cases with up to 27 years of follow-up. Using Poisson regression analyses restricted to immune-related or inflammatory conditions that occurred more than one year before CLL, we estimated relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals for CLL risk. Elevated CLL risk was found among individuals with prior chronic sinusitis (RR = 1.27, 1.01-1.61). Pneumonia had a borderline (RR = 1.13, 1.00-1.27) association with CLL; the risk was further elevated (RR = 1.35, 1.07-1.72) for latency <5 years. Conversely, chronic non-rheumatic valvular heart disease was associated with 0.76-fold (0.58-0.99) decreased risk. Herpes zoster and simplex were associated with increased (RR = 1.98, 1.40-2.79) and borderline  increased (RR = 1.69, 0.96-2.98) CLL risk. There was no general association between autoimmunity and CLL; however, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia was associated with 3.86-fold (1.93-7.74) elevated CLL risk. Individuals with chronic osteoarthritis and prostatitis had 1.14-fold (1.03-1.25) and 1.64-fold (1.14-2.37) elevated CLL risk. These association patterns suggest primary focus on infectious agents rather than autoantigens for future aetiologic CLL studies."
3130	"Monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis (MBL) was detected in four unaffected first-degree relatives (FDR) in a familial chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) kindred. The proband remains untreated and two male siblings have died. The four  unaffected siblings have been followed for a five-year period. All four FDR developed a kappa(+)CD5(+) MBL detected by flow cytometry. Poymerase chain reaction (PCR) for IGHV rearrangement showed evidence of oligoclonality in three  of these individuals. Single cell PCR of flow cytometric sorted kappa(+) cells combined with Ig kappa light chain gene sequencing revealed further evidence of monoclonality in two of these individuals. Three of these individuals all showed  evidence of hyper-somatic mutations. The B-cell repertoire in unaffected FDR in familial CLL offers a new area to investigate the interface between the immune system and lymphoid neoplasm."
3131	"The aetiology of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is largely unknown. Despite  compelling evidence for ionising radiation as a cause of most forms of leukaemia, CLL was not found to be radiogenic in early studies. Herein we describe the recent evidence for causation of CLL by ionising and non-ionising radiation, including a nested case-control study conducted within a cohort of 94 517 US workers at four nuclear weapons facilities and a nuclear naval shipyard. Forty-three cases of CLL deaths and 172 age-matched controls were identified with follow-up up to between 1990 and 1996. Radiation exposure from external sources and plutonium (lagged 10 years) was assessed for each worker, based on monitoring records. The excess relative rate (ERR) was estimated for workers receiving elevated doses compared to unexposed workers, controlling for possible risk factors. The ERR per 10 mSv was -0.020 (95% confidence interval: <0, 0.14) based  on all exposed workers. However, for workers receiving <100 mSv, the ERR per 10 mSv was 0.20 (-0.035, 0.96). Recent studies of uranium miners and other populations have shown elevations of CLL possibly associated with ionising and non-ionising radiation. New studies should use incident cases and sufficient latency to account for the expected lengthy induction period for CLL."
3132	"Sixty patients were prospectively studied with the aim of analyzing the clinical  and laboratory features and outcome of patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) in a major referral center in Niger Delta region of Nigeria for 10 years (1995-2005). The peripheral blood, bone marrow cytology, clinical features and stage at diagnosis were studied. Treatment modalities, response to treatment and survival outcome of the patients were analysed. Sixty patients (15 men and 45 women) were seen, with female preponderance (M : F ratio,1 : 3). The CLL incidence was 36.4% of total leukaemias. The median age was 56 years with peak age group at 51-60 years while 15% were below 40 years. Major  clinical findings include lymphadenopathy (91.7%), anaemia (58.3%), abdominal swelling (58.3%), and splenomegaly (50%) with 53 patients (88.3%) presenting as International (Binet) stage B and C while only seven patients (11.7%) were seen in stage A. The least clinical presentation includes Richter's syndrome in 3.3% of cases and herpes Zoster skin manifestations in two patients (3.3%). There was  a strong association between the blood counts at diagnosis and outcome of therapy. The 2-year survival for young (<55 years) and older (>55 years) CLL patients was 27.2% and 28.9%, respectively, which is still very poor because of a number of strong limiting factors. CLL is not rare in Southern Nigeria and its presentations are similar to cases seen worldwide. Contrary to existing literature a female predominance was observed in this study with majority of patients seeking medical intervention late. It is therefore recommended that future research into the genetic make up/HLA typing of patients of African descent is needed to clarify some of the differences observed."
3133	"Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is well known for its aetiological role in chronic non-A, non-B viral hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma; in addition, the virus has also been implicated in a number of extra-hepatic "autoimmune" disease manifestations. A causative association between HCV and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) was postulated relatively recently and has been the subject of intense investigation, as well as some debate. On the strength of epidemiological data, emerging biological investigations and clinical observations, HCV appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of at least a proportion of patients with NHL. Morphologically, HCV-associated lymphomas represent a variety of histological subtypes including marginal zone lymphoma (splenic, nodal and extranodal), small  lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Remarkably, some HCV-associated NHL appears to be highly responsive to antiviral therapy, providing some clinical evidence for this relationship, as well as the prospect for novel therapeutic intervention."
3135	"HLA-G appears to be involved in regulatory functions counteracting the cellular immune response of T and NK cells by several pathways. We here summarize the HLA-G expression patterns in leukaemia with emphasis on the clinical relevance of this expression for disease progression. Especially in patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) the HLA-G expression on B-CLL cells was strongly associated with a reduced treatment-free survival. The corresponding immunological parameters point to a broad immunosuppression in these patients. Thus, HLA-G seems to contribute to the impaired immune response in B-CLL supporting disease progression."
3136	"CLL (chronic lymphocytic leukaemia) is characterized by the clonal outgrowth of B-lymphocytes with the distinctive phenotype: CD19(hi)CD5(+)CD23(+)IgM(lo). These malignant B-cells accumulate in the PB (peripheral blood) and lymphoid organs, and are generally arrested at the G(0)/G(1)-phase of cell cycle and display a resistance to apoptosis. To date, most of the CLL research has been carried out using PB samples obtained from patients with established CLL, which have proved instrumental in characterizing the disease. However, while CLL cells appear to have a defect in apoptosis in vivo, they rapidly undergo apoptosis ex vivo, suggesting that CLL cells are dependent on microenvironmental signals to enhance  cell survival. One approach used to define the cellular and molecular events that govern CLL has been the development of murine models that replicate the human disease. As well as providing a deeper understanding of the potential triggers for CLL, these models provide preclinical in vivo systems to test novel therapies. The focus of the present review will be to highlight the recent advances in the development of mouse models for CLL."
3139	"The proliferating component in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is usually small (<1%) and restricted to a specific micro-environmental niche. To characterize the proliferating component, CLL cells from bone marrow or lymph nodes of 23 patients were assessed for expression of up to 66 surface antigens in combination with nuclear Ki-67/MCM6. Ki-67 expression was associated with step-wise increases in CD23/CD95/CD86/CD39/CD27 and decreases in CD24/CD69/CXCR4/CXCR5. Ki-67+ cells showed increased CD38 expression, but with considerable inter-patient variability: in some cases Ki-67 expression was only detectable in CD38- CLL cells. The results suggest continuous re-entry into the cell cycle as no distinct stem cell pool was detectable."
3140	"Tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), a member  of the TNF family, which is being developed as an anti-tumour agent due to its selective toxicity to tumour cells, induces apoptosis by binding to two membrane-bound receptors, TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2. Clinical trials have been initiated with various preparations of TRAIL as well as agonistic monoclonal antibodies to TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2. Previously we reported that prior treatment  of primary chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells with histone deacetylase inhibitors was required to sensitize CLL cells to TRAIL and, using various receptor-selective TRAIL mutant ligands, we demonstrated that CLL cells signalled to apoptosis primarily through TRAIL-R1. Some, but not all, agonistic TRAIL-receptor antibodies require cross-linking in order to induce apoptosis. The present study demonstrated that CLL cells can signal to apoptosis through the TRAIL-R2 receptor, but only after cross-linking of the agonistic TRAIL-R2 antibodies, LBY135 and lexatumumab (HGS-ETR2). In contrast, signalling through TRAIL-R1 by receptor-selective ligands or certain agonistic antibodies, such as mapatumumab (HGS-ETR1), occurs in the absence of cross-linking. These results further highlight important differences in apoptotic signalling triggered through TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2 in primary tumour cells. Such information is clearly important for the rational optimisation of TRAIL therapy in primary lymphoid malignancies, such as CLL."
3141	"Previous studies suggested that patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) are at a three- to fivefold increased risk of developing a second lymphoproliferative disorder (LPD). This observational cohort study used the Mayo Clinic CLL Database to identify factors associated with developing a second LPD.  A second LPD was identified in 26 (2.7%) of 962 CLL patients during a median follow-up of 3.3 years. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma was the most common subtype of secondary LPD (12 of 26 cases). Patients previously treated for CLL had a trend toward higher prevalence of second LPD (4%) compared with previously untreated patients (2%; P = 0.053). More strikingly, patients treated with purine nucleoside analogues (PNA) had a significantly increased risk of subsequent second LPD (5.2%) compared with patients who had not received PNA (1.9%; P = 0.008). No statistically significant association was observed between risk of second LPD and other CLL characteristics (ZAP-70, CD38, IgV(H) mutation status or cytogenetic abnormalities). In this series, prior treatments with PNA or anthracyclines were the only significant factors associated with risk of developing a second LPD in patients with CLL. Physicians should strictly adhere to established criteria to initiate treatment for CLL patients who are not participating in clinical trials."
3144	"BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer and B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) have a significant incidence, which are increasing with the aging population. Evidence has been presented in the literature to suggest that the synchronous presentation of colorectal cancer and B cell CLL may be more than simply coincidental for these two common malignancies. We report an unusual case of a presumed B cell CLL diagnosed on the basis of histological analysis of lymph nodes recovered from a resection specimen for rectal adenocarcinoma. We considered aetiological factors  which may have linked the synchronous diagnosis of the two malignancies and the potential implications for the natural history of the two malignancies on one another. CASE PRESENTATION: A 70-year-old male underwent low anterior resection with total mesorectal excision for a rectal adenocarcinoma. His co-morbid conditions were chronic obstructive airways disease and ischaemic heart disease. General examination revealed no lymphadenopathy. Full blood count, urea and electrolytes  and liver function tests were all within normal limits. As well as confirming a pT3 N1 adenocarcinoma, histological analysis showed lymph nodes with an infiltrate of small lymphoid cells. Immunohistochemical studies showed these cells to be in keeping with B cell CLL. CONCLUSION: Whilst unable to identify any common aetiological factors in the two  malignancies in our patient, immunosuppression and genetic abnormalities have been identified as possible bases for an observed epidemiological association between colorectal cancer and haematological malignancies. Examples such as our case of synchronous diagnosis of two malignancies in a patient are likely to increase with the aging population. The potential affects of one malignancy on the natural history of the other warrants further study. In our case, we considered that slow progression of the B cell CLL may increase the risk of recurrent rectal adenocarcinoma."
3145	"Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) is consistently associated with distinct lymphoproliferative malignancies and aberrant EBV antibody patterns are found in  most EBV cancer patients. We evaluate the detection of an abnormal reactive serological pattern to EBV (ab_EBV) infection and the risk of lymphoma in a multicentric case-control study. Serum samples were collected at study entry from 1,085 incident lymphoma cases from Spain, France, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy  and 1,153 age, sex and country matched controls. EBV immunoglobulin G (IgG) serostatus was evaluated through a peptide-based ELISA combining immunodominant epitopes of EBNA1 (BKRF1) and VCA-p18 (BFRF3). Further, immunoblot analysis was performed to evaluate distinct antibody diversity patterns to EBV early antigens  (EA), besides EBNA1, VCA-p18, VCA-p40 (BdRF1) and Zebra (BZLF1). Patients with chronic active EBV infection and aberrant EBV activity were characterized as having an abnormal reactive pattern (ab_EBV). Ab_EBV was observed in 20.9% of 2,238 included subjects with an increased proportion of cases presenting ab_EBV as compared to the control population (23.9% vs. 18.0% p = 0.001). Ab_EBV positivity was a risk factor for all lymphomas combined (odds ratio [OR] = 1.42,  95% confidence interval [CI]=1.15-1.74), and specifically for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (OR = 2.96, 95%CI = 2.22-3.95). Lower levels of ab_EBV were observed for follicular lymphoma (OR = 0.38, 95%CI = 0.15-0.98). EBV may be involved in a  larger subset of lymphomas among clinically immunocompetent subjects than previously thought, probably explained by an underlying loss of immune control of EBV latent infection. Ab_EBV is a useful tool to explore EBV imbalances preceding or paralleling possible EBV associated oncogenic events."
3146	"Despite improved responses, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) remains incurable with conventional chemotherapy. Patients with poor-risk factors or who fail conventional chemoimmunotherapy are offered autografts, preferably after achieving remission. This report presents the totality of evidence through a systematic review that assessed the efficacy of autografts in CLL. A search of MEDLINE databases from 1966-2006 and hand-search of references identified 82 prospective-randomized, non-randomized comparisons or single-arm trials, of which only nine met our inclusion criteria: two trials were funded by public/government, one by private foundations, one jointly by private/public, and was unclear in five. No randomized controlled trials comparing autografts versus  conventional chemotherapy (or chemoimmunotherapy) were found. Six studies were single-arm and three were non-randomized with a control-arm (autologous versus allogeneic). Overall, 361 patients were enrolled, but only 292 were transplanted. Transplant-related mortality ranged from 0% to 9%. Complete responses ranged from 74% to 100% and molecular responses ranged from 57% to 88%. Overall survival ranged from 68% at 3 years to 58% at 6 years. It is uncertain whether autograft is superior to conventional therapy. The high incidence of myelodysplastic syndrome (9-12%) is particularly concerning in CLL, where median survival is 9 years."
3147	"Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a critical role in the induction of the immune response to invading pathogens. The detection of pathogens by TLRs initiates a signalling cascade that results in the activation of transcription factors such as nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and interferon regulatory factors leading to the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and type 1 interferons. Five cytoplasmic adaptors, MyD88, Mal, Trif, TRAM and SARM, are utilized by the TLRs to activate these signalling pathways. Through the years the main focus of research has been  on the activation and function of TLRs in monocytic cells. This review discusses  several additional roles of TLRs. TLR activation plays a role in influencing the  differentiation of haematopoietic stem cells. Their activation also prevents apoptosis in neutrophils following pathogen invasion. B cells and T cells proliferation and differentiation is influenced by TLR activation and the possible therapeutic benefits of using TLR ligands for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia will also be discussed."
3149	"BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab (MabCampath) is a monoclonal antibody against CD52, indicated as third-line treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). As most important side effect opportunistic infections are mentioned. It is, however, unknown whether these complications often lead to problems in general patient care in the Netherlands. METHODS: To gain insight into the use and complications of alemtuzumab therapy, the alemtuzumab-treated CLL patients in 15 hospitals in the Netherlands were evaluated by means of a questionnaire. RESULTS: In the period from 31 October 2001 until 17 November 2005, 27 patients with CLL or prolymphocytic leukaemia (PLL), RAI stage I to IV, Binet stage A to C, received 32 treatments with alemtuzumab. The time from diagnosis until start of alemtuzumab treatment was 6 +/- 4.5 years (mean +/- SD ). The treatment lasted 11 +/- 7 weeks. Of the treatments, 41% could be administered for the full 12 weeks. The most frequent adverse events were fever (72%), shivering (47%), fatigue (22%) and dyspnoea (16%). Haematological side effects consisted of leucopenia (75%), thrombocytopenia (44%), and anaemia (13%). Infectious complications occurred in 12 of 32 (38%) treatments: pneumonia (25%; of which one Pneumocystis carini pneumonia and four Aspergillus infections), sepsis (9%; of which one Listeria), herpes zoster (9%), herpes simplex (6%), CMV reactivation (6%), meningitis (3%) and Guillain Barre (3%). The overall response was 53%, with complete remission in 13%, partial remission in 41%, stable disease in 25% and progressive disease in 13%, and lasted for 8.3 +/- 7.3 months. CONCLUSION: Treatment with alemtuzumab is often terminated prematurely, leading to a suboptimal treatment effect. Fear of severe uncontrollable opportunistic infections seems unjustified."
3150	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is characterised by the progressive  accumulation of monoclonal CD5(+) B cells. In a previous study, we have analysed  the expression profile of apoptosis-regulating genes using a cDNA-based microarray and found overexpression of the antiapoptotic bcl-2 family member, bfl-1, in B-CLL cells with an apoptosis-resistant phenotype. In this study, bfl-1 mRNA levels have been determined by competitive PCR in an extended population of  B-CLL patients to characterise its role in disease progression and development of chemoresistance. bfl-1 levels were significantly higher in patients with no response (NR) to last chemotherapy than in patients responding (partial response  (PR)) to last chemotherapy (P<0.05) and in patients who had not required treatment (P<0.05). We found no correlation between bfl-1 mRNA levels and disease progression, IGHV mutational status or other clinical parameters. In addition, bfl-1 mRNA levels were inversely correlated with apoptotic response to in vitro fludarabine treatment of B-CLL cells. Specific downregulation of bfl-1 using siRNA induced apoptosis in resistant cells. Our data suggest that bfl-1 contributes to chemoresistance and might be a therapeutic target in B-CLL."
3152	"Excellent response rates are now achieved with modern chemoimmunotherapeutic approaches in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), but the disease remains incurable. Younger patients and those with adverse prognostic factors will die from their disease, and are therefore candidates for clinical trials investigating the potential role of haematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (SCT) in the management of their disease. Autologous SCT is feasible and safe, but there is a high incidence of subsequent relapse. Myeloablative allogeneic SCT is associated with high treatment-related morbidity and mortality but few late relapses. Attempts to exploit the graft-versus-leukaemia effect of allogeneic donor cells but to reduce the toxicity are being explored in studies of reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic SCT in CLL. With many potential treatments available, appropriate patient selection and the timing of SCT in the  management of CLL remain controversial and the focus of ongoing clinical trials."
3153	"The concept of minimal residual disease (MRD) eradication in chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia (CLL) is a relatively new one, as conventional therapy with alkylating  agents is relatively ineffective and responding patients almost always have a significant tumour burden remaining at the end of treatment. However, a variety of novel therapies is now yielding higher response rates, and responses of better quality are now routinely achieved. This progress in therapy has been paralleled  by an improvement in laboratory assays, allowing detection of CLL cells to levels as low as ten CLL cells in a million leukocytes. In this chapter we briefly review the existing methods for MRD assessment, the clinical relevance of MRD eradication in CLL, and the therapies available to attain this endpoint."
3154	"Rai and Binet staging of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is being superseded  by new prognostic markers. The mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable region heavy-chain genes segregates the disease into more benign and more malignant versions, and has been confirmed as an important prognostic marker in prospective clinical trials. A search for surrogate markers for this difficult-to-perform assay has led to flow cytometric assays for CD38 and ZAP-70  expression, although in both cases there are problems with standardization and interpretation of the assays. A separate pathway of research has revealed two chromosomal aberrations--deletions of 11q and 17p--as important prognostic markers. Fluorescent in-situ hybridization has made their detection readily available. These five markers are in different stages of evaluation, but some of  them are ready to be used for risk-adapted therapy in clinical trials. Other assays are in earlier stages of assessment."
3155	"The diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is based on clinical and laboratory features. Morphology and immunophenotype are the key initial diagnostic tests. In cases with atypical features, these investigations should be complemented with cytogenetics and/or histology to confirm the diagnosis and to exclude other B-cell disorders. Morphologically, CLL can be classified into typical and atypical forms. Cell-marker studies provide a robust foundation to establish the diagnosis as the lymphocytes have a distinct immunophenotypic signature. Although no single antigen is exclusively expressed in CLL cells, when several markers are compounded into a scoring system the results allow firming up of the diagnosis. Other immunological markers, such as CD38 or ZAP-70, have an important prognostic impact. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) analysis also provides prognostic information, chiefly by detecting 17 (p53 locus) and 11q deletion, and may determine the type of therapy."
3156	"AIMS: To characterize alemtuzumab pharmacokinetics and its exposure-response relationship with white blood cell (WBC) count in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). METHODS: Nonlinear mixed effects models were used to characterize plasma concentration-time data and WBC count-time data from 67 patients. Logistic regression was used to relate summary measures of drug exposure to tumour response. RESULTS: Alemtuzumab pharmacokinetics were best characterized by a two-compartment model with nonlinear elimination where V(max) (microg h(-1)) was  [1020 x (WBC count/10 x 10(9) l(-1))(0.194)], K(m) was 338 microg l(-1), V(1) was 11.3 l, Q was 1.05 l h(-1) and V(2) was 41.5 l. Intersubject variability (ISV) in V(max), K(m), V(1) and V(2) was 32%, 145%, 84% and 179%, respectively. The reduction in WBC over time was modelled by a stimulatory loss indirect response model with values of 18.2 for E(max), 306 microg l(-1) for EC(50), 1.56 x 10(9) cells l(-1) h(-1) for K(in) and 0.029 per h for K(out). The probability of achieving a complete or partial response was >/=50% when the maximal trough concentration exceeded 13.2 microg ml(-1) or when AUC(0-tau) exceeded 484 microg  h(-1) ml(-1). CONCLUSIONS: Alemtuzumab displayed time- and concentration-dependent pharmacokinetics with large interpatient variability, both in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, which was probably reflective of differences in tumour burden among patients. A direct relationship between maximal trough concentrations and clinical outcomes was observed, with increasing alemtuzumab exposure resulting in a greater probability of positive tumour response."
3157	"Primary cutaneous marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (PCMZL) is a low-grade malignant  lymphoma that presents in the skin with no evidence of extracutaneous localization at diagnosis. We present an 80-year-old woman with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) who developed multifocal PCMZL lesions 14 months after CLL diagnosis. PCMZL was clonally similar to the original bone marrow (BM)  CLL cells. The specific translocation t(14;18) (q32;q21) with breakpoints in IGH  and BCL2 loci was found in a skin specimen, but was absent in BM and peripheral blood (PB) cells. In contrast, a 13q deletion was found in BM and PB CLL cells. The patient was treated with chlorambucil and complete response of PCMZL was achieved. To our knowledge this is the first patient with CLL in whom PCMZL has been diagnosed."
3158	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia cells survive and proliferate in patients but rapidly die in culture. The microenvironment that sustains leukaemic cells in vivo contains both stromal cell elements and T cells. We defined changes in Bcl-2 family protein expression on culture with CD40 ligand (CD154) expressed on mouse  fibroblast L cells, and interleukin-4 (IL-4; CD154/IL-4 system): conditions that  support survival and proliferation. Unexpectedly, Bcl-2 protein expression decreased whilst pro-survival Bcl-x(L) (as well as A1 and Mcl-1) increased. However, the CD154-L cell/IL-4 system also increased the pro-apoptotic proteins,  Bid and Noxa, suggesting that an increased pool of pro-survival factors and not the effects of a single protein mediate survival. Most pro-apoptotic proteins were not induced in drug or spontaneous apoptosis, but expression of Bcl-x(S), a  pro-apoptotic BCL2L1 isoform, was associated with cell death. This was post-transcriptionally controlled, and, therefore, alternative splicing at the Bcl-x locus appears to have a role in the regulation of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cell survival. This study demonstrated a switch in pro-survival proteins associated with the transition from quiescence to CD154-driven proliferation. CLL therapies targeting Bcl-2 may need to be modified to antagonize proliferation centre-specific pro-survival proteins."
3159	"OBJECTIVE: SDX-101 is the non-cyclooxygenase 2-inhibiting R-enantiomer of the non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug etodolac, and has anti-tumour activity in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). SDX-308 and SDX-309 are more potent, structurally related indole-pyran analogues of SDX-101. The current study was performed to investigate and quantify the cytotoxic potentiating effects resulting from a combination of either SDX-101, SDX-308 or SDX-309 with standard  cytotoxic agents used in the CLL treatment today. METHODS: The lymphoma cell line U937-gtb was used, together with primary tumour cells isolated from seven CLL patients. Combinations between chlorambucil and each one of the agents etodolac, SDX-101, SDX-308 and SDX-309 were studied. In addition, SDX-309 was combined with fludarabine, doxorubicin or vincristine. Both simultaneous and sequential exposures were explored using the median-effect method. RESULTS: Most combinations were additive, which could be of clinical benefit since SDX-101 has been shown to be well tolerated. At the 70% effect level, synergy was observed between SDX-308 and chlorambucil in U937-gtb cells and in two-third of the CLL samples. Since chlorambucil is the most important drug in CLL therapy today and SDX-308 is presently targeted as the lead clinical candidate, this combination would be interesting for further studies. Vincristine and SDX-309 were synergistic in two-fourth of CLL samples. CONCLUSIONS: To conclude, the non-COX-inhibiting etodolac-derivatives SDX-101, SDX-308 and SDX-309 are potential candidates for combination treatment of CLL. Especially, SDX-308 in combination with chlorambucil warrants further evaluation."
3160	"BACKGROUND: Cannabinoid receptors CB1 and CB2 are part the endocannabinoid system that plays an important role in the process of proliferation and apoptosis of different neoplastic cells. B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is one of the diseases in which these processes are altered. AIM: The aim of our study was the assessment of cannabinoid receptor expression on the B-lymphocytes in bone marrow trephine biopsy from leukaemic patients at diagnosis and after purine analogue treatment. METHODS: The biopsy was taken routinely and standard immunohistochemical staining procedure for paraffin embedded sections was applied. The cannabinoid receptors were detected using specific primary polyclonal antibody anti-CB1 and anti-CB2. Additionally, an existence of cannabinoid receptors was confirmed by flow cytometry. RESULTS: The results showed that the expression of CB1 receptor on the surface of neoplastic cells was lower than that of CB2 (17.0+/-3.1% and 92.1+/-1.7% respectively, p<0.001). Nine of the patients responded to applied treatment with  a reduction in leukaemic infiltration (77.2+/-6.9% to 30.2+/-6.5%, p=0.007) and CB1 receptor expression (24.4+/-4.8% to 8.6+/-2.9%, p=0.01), but there was no change in CB2 expression (91.7+/-2.7% vs 90.9+/-2.8%, p=0.69). Four patients without remission expressed even greater number of the receptors. In all of the cases both cannabinoid receptor types antibodies gave positive reaction. Furthermore, the existence of cannabinoid receptors on neoplastic lymphocytes was confirmed by flow cytometry. CONCLUSION: The study provides original evidence for the existence of cannabinoid receptors on B-lymphocytes in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients. The receptors are thought to be a new structure that can modify the course of the disease and may be considered as a new target in leukaemia treatment."
3161	"PURPOSE: To describe a rare association of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Report of three patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) who developed CMV retinitis. RESULTS: The diagnosis was established by the detection of CMV DNA by polymerase  chain reaction analysis of aqueous and/or vitreous humour. CD4+ T-lymphocyte count was reduced in two patients and normal in the third one. There was bilateral involvement in two of the three patients. There was delay of 8-10 months in diagnosis. The visual outcome was poor in four out of the five eyes involved owing to optic atrophy or total retinal detachment with proliferative vitreoretinopathy. CONCLUSION: Increased awareness of CMV retinitis in patients who have received immunosuppression for haematological malignancies, such as CLL, could lead to earlier diagnosis and possibly better visual outcome."
3163	"Deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) activates several antileukaemic nucleoside analogues.  We have recently reported that the activity of dCK, overexpressed in HEK 293T cells, correlates with its phosphorylation level on Ser-74. Here, we show that dCK from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) lymphocytes can be detected by an anti-phospho-Ser-74 antibody and that interindividual variability in dCK activity is related to its phosphorylation level on Ser-74. Moreover, pharmacological intervention modified Ser-74 phosphorylation, in close parallel with changes in dCK activity. These results suggest that activation of dCK via phosphorylation of Ser-74 might constitute a new therapeutic strategy to enhance  activation and efficacy of nucleoside analogues."
3164	"The etiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is poorly understood and its course is highly variable. Somatic hypermutation (SHM) of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgV(H)) gene and ZAP70 protein expression have been reported as prognostic indicators. However, these assays are not widely available and their concordance is imperfect. Thus a need exists to identify additional molecular determinants of CLL. The Igbeta (CD79b) subunit of the B cell antigen receptor is essential for B lymphocyte function. Defects in Igbeta expression are implicated  in CLL pathogenesis. We have analyzed Igbeta mRNA expression in CLL cells in 40 consecutive patient samples. About 75% of the samples showed the expected decrease of Igbeta surface staining. Igbeta mRNA levels covered a wider range, did not correlate with Igbeta surface staining, but clearly distinguished the normal and CLL lymphocyte populations. Remarkably, Igbeta mRNA levels correlated  strongly with SHM; Igbeta mRNA levels in CLL cells were significantly higher in patients with an unmutated IgV(H) gene when compared with those in whom IgV(H) was hypermutated (P = 0.008). In contrast, no correlation was observed between Igbeta mRNA levels and ZAP70 expression. Multiple parameters abstracted from chart reviews were used to estimate severity of CLL in each case. While severity  correlated strongly with ZAP70 staining, and to a lesser extent with SHM status,  there was no correlation with Igbeta mRNA levels. These data establish a strong linkage between Igbeta mRNA expression and SHM in CLL and highlight the complex relationships between biochemical parameters and clinical status in this disease."
3165	"A 69-year-old woman with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia presented with an 18-month history of pruritic, tender, erythematous plaques. The recurrent lesions simulated insect bites and cellulitis, but failed to respond to appropriate treatments. A recent severe flare was associated with markedly elevated inflammatory markers and swelling of the left leg. The swelling settled rapidly with ibuprofen, leaving cellulitis around a small ulcer infected with Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes. The cellulitis responded to oral flucloxacillin. Subsequent multiple small exaggerated insect bite reaction lesions settled with oral prednisolone. Eosinophilic cellulitis (Wells' syndrome) was considered unlikely based on the lack of a morphoea-like resolution phase, histological lack of flame figures and presence of vasculitis; however, the distinction is probably artificial."
3166	"SDX-308 and SDX-309 are potent indole-pyran analogues of SDX-101 (R-etodolac) which has anti-tumour activity unrelated to cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition. Their cytotoxic activity was further studied herein using a well-characterized human tumour cell-line panel containing ten cell lines, as well as in 58 primary tumour cell samples from a variety of diagnoses. The indole-pyran analogues of SDX-101 were in general considerably more active in both cancer cell lines and primary tumour samples. Low cross-reactivity with standard agents was observed, indicating a unique mechanism of action. No apparent influence on efficacy was observed via classical mechanisms of multidrug-resistance. SDX-101 and SDX-309 showed higher relative activity in haematological compared to solid tumour samples, while SDX-308 had pronounced solid-tumour activity. High SDX-308 cytotoxic efficacy was observed in non-small cell lung cancer, renal cancer and ovarian cancer samples, and also in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. In conclusion, the indole-pyran analogues showed a favourable pharmacological profile and represent a potentially important new class of drugs for cancer treatment."
3168	"To document outcome in Hodgkin and other lymphomas from a privately based academic centre the clinical records from 253 consecutive referrals were analysed. Diagnosis was according to World Health Organization criteria, prognosis assigned by the international index and therapy risk-stratified with results subject to appropriate statistical methodology. None of these patients underwent transplantation. For the cohort the median age was 55 years (range 11-94) and 63% were male. Constitutional symptoms were present in 22%; a quarter  had previous chemotherapy and a third some form of irradiation prior to referral. Fifty-seven percent were stage I or II and 21% had nodal disease above and below  the diaphragm whilst in the remainder cells were present in the circulation and this included the subset of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia -- small lymphocytic lymphoma. Positron emission scanning was not available for these studies. Median  survival for the cohort is 3.2 years and reduced to 1.3 years by the presence of  unexplained fever, sweating or inappropriate weight loss. Further adverse factors included any prior treatment, intermediate or high-grade histopathology, risk factors defined by the International Prognostic Index as well as late Rai stages. Analysed by disease category Hodgkin lymphoma (n=17) when managed according to the German Study Group protocols and hairy cell leukaemia (n=10) treated with two chlorodeoxyadenosine -- both had a stable plateau in excess of 90%. The corresponding figures for follicular variants (n=31) was 72% in the low risk and  58% in the remainder when treated with cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone. Curves for the aggressive or diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (n=44) fell initially to 48%, but relapse continued in stages III and IV to the current  level of 18% when receiving cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine and prednisone on the 21-day schedule. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia -- small lymphocytic lymphoma (n=58) were initially given pulsed chlorambucil and sustained response was over 90% with low bulk, but declined to reach 30% as prognostic score rose. The miscellaneous categories (n<5 each) managed variably,  but using the same criteria, were pooled and are presently at 62% and 30% for high and low grades. It is concluded that precise diagnosis, accurate staging and therapy on standardised risk-stratified programmes, delivered uniformly by a single multidisciplinary group, creates the all-important centre effect; matching figures are unlikely to apply outside these disciplined circumstances. The expectation from patients and referring physicians alike is that, since lymphomas are potentially curable, such an approach to comprehensive management will be regarded as standard even in an under resourced or Third World country. It follows that late referral and prior therapy will adversely affect performance status and compromise life span: These alternative approaches are inappropriate and strongly discouraged."
3170	"In this study, we set out to establish whether fludarabine could enhance the DNA  interstrand crosslinking capacity of SJG-136 in primary human chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells and thereby offer a rationale for its clinical use in combination with SJG-136. SJG-136 rapidly induced DNA crosslinking in primary CLL cells which was concentration-dependent. Further, the level of crosslinking correlated with sensitivity to SJG-136-induced apoptosis (P=0.001) and higher levels of crosslinking were induced by the combination of SJG-136 and fludarabine (P=0.002). All of the samples tested (n=40) demonstrated synergy between SJG-136  and fludarabine (mean combination index (CI)=0.54+/-0.2) and this was even retained in samples derived from patients with fludarabine resistance (mean CI=0.62+/-0.3). Transcription of the excision repair enzyme, ERCC1, was consistently increased (20/20) in response to SJG-136 (P<0.0001). In contrast, fludarabine suppressed ERCC1 transcription (P=0.04) and inhibited SJG-136-induced ERCC1 transcription when used in combination (P=0.001). Importantly, the ability  of fludarabine to suppress ERCC1 transcription correlated with the degree of synergy observed between SJG-136 and fludarabine (r(2)=0.28; P=0.017) offering a  mechanistic rationale for the synergistic interaction. The data presented here provides a clear indication that this combination of drugs may have clinical utility as salvage therapy in drug-resistant CLL."
3171	"High-dose cytotoxic chemotherapy followed by autologous haematopoietic stem cell  transplantation (ASCT) is extensively used for the treatment of many haematopoietic, as well as several epithelial cancers. Disease relapse may be the result of tumour contamination within autograft as evidenced by gene marking studies. The multiple purging strategies that have been described to date have not proven effective in most ASCT settings. This review addresses the possibility of using oncolytic viruses as a novel purging strategy. DNA viruses such as genetically engineered adenoviral vectors have widely been used to deliver either a prodrug-activating enzyme or express wild-type p53 selectively in tumour cells  in ex vivo purging protocols. In addition, conditionally replicating adenoviruses that selectively replicate in tumour cells and herpes simplex virus type 1 are other DNA viruses that have been tested as ex vivo purging agents under laboratory conditions. Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and reovirus are naturally occurring RNA viruses that appear to hold promise as purging agents under ex vivo and in vivo settings. Preclinical data demonstrate reovirus's purging potential against breast, monocytic and myeloma cell lines as well as patient-derived tumours of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma. In addition, VSV has shown effective killing of leukaemic cell lines and multiple myeloma patient specimens. Given the increasing interest in the utilization of viruses as purging agents, the following review provides a timely summary of the  potential and the challenges of oncolytic viruses as purging modalities during ASCT."
3172	"The occurrence of trisomy 19 was investigated in 705 cases of B-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) by metaphase cytogenetic and/or fluorescence in situ  hybridisation analyses. Trisomy 19 was detected in 11 cases (1.6%), all of which  also carried a trisomy 12; nine of 10 had mutated IGHV genes. In contrast, B-CLL  cases with trisomy 12 lacking trisomy 19 mostly had unmutated IGHV genes. Karyotypes of the present study and the literature identified a strong correlation to trisomy 18 in addition to trisomy 12. Trisomy 19 seems to be a secondary event in B-CLL with trisomy 12, mostly originating from mutated B cells."
3173	"Membrane-bound and soluble human leucocyte antigen-G (sHLA-G) molecules display immunotolerant properties favouring tumour cell escape from immune surveillance.  sHLA-G molecules have been detected in several tumour pathologies; this study aimed to evaluate sHLA-G expression in lymphoproliferative disorders. sHLA-G plasma level was significantly increased in 110 of 178 newly diagnosed lymphoid proliferations cases i.e. 59% of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, 65% of B non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) and 58% of T-NHL. To assess the mechanisms involved in this secretion, the differential effect of cytokines was tested in in vitro cultures of NHL cells. A significant induction of sHLA-G level was shown in T-NHL in contrast with B-NHL and normal equivalent cells, after cytokine stimulation with (i) interferongamma (IFNgamma), interleukin-2 (IL-2) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, (ii) IL-10 and (iii) transforming growth factor beta. An impact of microenvironment on sHLA-G expression was found in B-NHL as shown by the in vitro effect of addition of normal monocytes. Finally, a functional effect of sHLA-G molecules purified from  pathologic plasma was demonstrated by their strong capacity to inhibit T-cell proliferation at concentrations currently observed during these disorders. These  results suggest that functional sHLA-G molecules are upregulated in lymphoproliferative disorders which can support their potential immunomodulatory  role during this pathology."
3174	"OBJECTIVES: To analyse the effects of ranitidine treatment on vaccination induced antibody responses in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). METHODS: Fifty CLL patients were vaccinated with tetanus conjugated Hib vaccine and a 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine with (n = 25) or without (n = 25) ranitidine treatment in a matched case--control setting. Anti tetanus toxoid  (TT), anti-Hib and anti-pneumococcal antibody levels were determined before and after vaccination. Additionally, cytokine levels were assessed in patients treated with ranitidine. RESULTS: Vaccination-induced increases in anti-Hib and anti-TT antibody levels were higher in the ranitidine group compared with the control group. Anti-pneumococcal antibody responses were not improved by administration of ranitidine. Higher levels of IL-18 were found in patients treated with ranitidine compared with healthy controls. Levels of IL-6, IL-8, IL-18, RANTES, IP-10, sVCAM-1 and sICAM-1 were within normal ranges and did not change during ranitidine treatment. CONCLUSION: Ranitidine treatment improves vaccination-induced T-cell dependent antibody responses in patients with CLL but has no beneficial effect on the response to vaccination with unconjugated polysaccharide antigens."
3175	"BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a frequent non-Hodgkin lymphoma characterised by a heterogeneous clinical course. Assessment of cell cycle phase kinetics might be important for prediction of clinical behaviour and prognosis. METHODS: Distribution of neoplastic cells in CLL within the cell cycle was evaluated by determining the labelling indices (LI, i.e. percentage of positive cells) of markers specific for late G1-phase (cyclin E), S-phase (cyclin A), and  G2/M-phase (cyclin B1), and Mcm2, a novel marker of proliferative potential, in a large cohort of patients (n = 79) using tissue microarray (TMA) technology. Utilising a combination of these markers, an algorithm was developed--subtracting the combined LIs of cyclin E, cyclin A and cyclin B1 from the LI of Mcm2--to determine the percentage of tumour cells residing in early G1-phase, which is probably a critical state for the malignant potential of CLL. RESULTS: 27.11% of cells had acquired proliferative potential as indicated by expression of Mcm2. Only a small number of cells were found to be in late G1-phase (7.16%), S-phase (3.31%) or G2/M-phase (0.98%), while 15.66% of cells were considered to be in early G1-phase. CONCLUSION: Cell cycle phase distribution can easily be assessed by immunohistochemistry in routinely processed paraffin-embedded specimens. A large  number of neoplastic cells in CLL have proliferative potential, with a significant sub-population residing in early G1-phase. Estimates of these cells may identify cases likely to exhibit a more aggressive biological behaviour and adverse clinical course."
3176	"Acute phase proteins (APP) are regarded as a useful diagnostic tool in humans with lymphomas, leukaemias and multiple myeloma. C-reactive protein (CRP) and haptoglobin concentrations were measured in dogs with malignant multicentric (high grade) lymphoma (n=16), acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) (n=11), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (n=7) and multiple myeloma (n=8). Twenty-five healthy dogs served as controls. Measurements of the CRP plasma concentration were performed using a commercial ELISA and haptoglobin was measured with an assay based on its haemoglobin binding capacity. Global group comparisons using Kruskal-Wallis-test revealed significant group differences for both APPs (P<0.0001). Median CRP concentrations were increased in all groups with neoplastic lymphatic disorders (lymphoma: 37.2mg/L, ALL: 47.8mg/L, CLL: 35.5mg/L, myeloma: 17.6mg/L) compared to controls (1.67mg/L; P<0.001). Compared to the healthy controls (median=0.59g/L), haptoglobin was especially increased in dogs with ALL (6.8g/L, P<0.0001) followed by dogs with malignant lymphoma (3.8g/L, P<0.0001), CLL (3.2g/L, P=0.0008), and multiple myeloma (3.0g/L, P=0.0163). For both APPs, a wide range of values was found in all patient groups. The results indicate that particularly severe and acute lymphatic neoplasia, such as high grade lymphoma and ALL, cause significant acute phase reactions in dogs and must  be included in the differential diagnoses of increased blood levels of these APPs."
3177	"Loss of the long arm of chromosomes 11 and 13 is the most consistent cytogenetic  abnormalities for patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). They suggest the presence of as yet unidentified tumour suppressor genes within well-defined minimal-deleted regions (MinDRs). We have identified 38 orthologues  of the human genes in MinDRs in zebrafish cDNA and syntenic regions for the human deletions in the zebrafish genome. One region on chromosome 9 in the zebrafish genome is of potential interest. Within chromosome 9, five genes and two microRNAs were identified with shared synteny to the MinDRs in B-CLL (two genes to human chromosome 11, three to human chromosome 13 and two chromosome 13 microRNAs). The critical region on zebrafish chromosome 9 maps to the MinDR for both human chromosomes, suggesting a common ancestry for B-CLL tumour suppressor  genes. Target-selected mutagenesis to identify zebrafish mutants with knock-outs  of genes in this region will allow analysis of their in vivo potential for lymphoproliferation and may define causative genes for B-CLL within human chromosomes 11q and 13q. Our study provides an explanation for involvement of both 11q and 13q in B-CLL and the potential to develop animal models for this common lymphoproliferative disorder."
3179	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with increased prolymphocytes (CLL/PL) has been defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) classification and considered as a progressive and clinically aggressive variant of CLL. To further characterize the biological features of this disease, we performed IgVH gene mutational status, FISH and high-resolution comparative genomic hybridization (HR-CGH) analysis in 17 cases of CLL/PL. All CLL/PL utilized members of VH1, VH3  and VH4 families, with the highest prevalence of the VH1-69 gene. In all but one  cases analyzed, the VH genes were unmutated. The FISH and HR-CGH analyses showed  frequent occurrence of trisomy 12, del(11)(q23), del(17)(p13) and genetic imbalances, but recurrent genetic lesion characteristic for CLL/PL was not found. The follow-up HR-CGH analysis of two cases showed that increase of prolymphocytes in the course of CLL or CLL/PL are associated with clonal evolution and selection of the tumour clone. In conclusion, this study suggests that CLL/PL is a relatively homogeneous disease regarding VH gene mutation, but heterogeneous regarding genetic lesions. The heterogeneity and high number of genomic imbalances found in CLL/PL suggest that a genome-wide instability of the neoplastic cells may play a role in the development of the disease."
3181	"BACKGROUND: The course of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) partly depends on the mutational status of the variable region of immunoglobulin heavy chain genes (IgV(H)), which defines two subgroups of tumours: mutated and unmutated. The expression of zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP70) is significantly associated with the more aggressive unmutated forms. AIMS: To assess the feasibility of the ZAP70 immunohistochemical test on bone-marrow biopsy (BMB) specimens and to compare the results with those of western blotting (WB) and IgV(H) mutational status assessed on neoplastic cells from peripheral blood. METHODS: 26 patients with CLL/SLL detected on BMB and with known IgV(H) mutational status were selected. ZAP70 was determined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) comparing three antibodies from different sources (Upstate, Cell Signaling, Santa Cruz, California, USA) and two different methods (APAAP and EnVision(+)). In 23 cases, ZAP70 WB results were also available. RESULTS: ZAP70 determination on BMB specimens turned out to be easily feasible with routine procedures with reagents from Upstate and Cell Signaling. The results were concordant with those obtained with WB and mutational status analysis in >80% of the cases with both reagents. Three of four discordant cases  were mutated/ZAP70 positive, with two staining weakly for ZAP70 on both WB and IHC. CONCLUSIONS: The study confirms the role of ZAP70 as a possible surrogate of mutational status and emphasises its application in routine diagnostics; it discloses a small subset of discordant cases (mutated/ZAP70 weakly positive) that clinically cluster with the more favourable forms."
3187	"ZAP-70 (zeta-chain-associated protein 70 kDa) expression is associated with poor  prognosis in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). This study evaluated the efficacy of non-myeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation  in patients with advanced CLL and assessed the impact of ZAP-70 expression on the outcome. Thirty-nine sequential patients were included. All had previously been treated with fludarabine. All patients received a preparative regimen of fludarabine (30 mg/m(2)/d for 3 d), intravenous cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m(2)/d for 3 d), and high-dose rituximab. Immunohistochemical techniques on marrow biopsy samples were used to determine that ZAP-70 was expressed in 25 patients, whereas 13 other patients were ZAP-70 negative, and one was of indeterminate status. With a median follow-up time of 27 months, the estimated overall survival and current progression-free survival (CPFS) rates at 4 years were 48% and 44% respectively. Patients who were ZAP-70 positive had 56% survival, and their CPFS  rate increased from 30% to 53% after a donor lymphocyte infusion. Multivariate analysis indicated that chemorefractory disease and mixed T cell chimerism at day 90, but not ZAP-70 positivity, were associated with the risk of disease progression after transplantation. These results demonstrate a potent graft-versus-leukaemia effect that can overcome the adverse prognostic effect of  ZAP-70 expression."
3188	"NTB-A is a CD2-related cell surface protein expressed primarily on lymphoid cells including B-lymphocytes from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and lymphoma patients. We have generated a series of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against NTB-A and assessed their therapeutic potential for CLL. Selective mAbs to NTB-A were further tested in functional complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicty (ADCC) assays in cell lines and B lymphocytes freshly isolated from CLL patients. While lower levels of NTB-A were  detected in T and natural killer (NK) cells, CDC activity was demonstrated primarily in B cells isolated from CLL patients and B lymphoma cell lines. Knockdown of NTB-A by small interfering RNA in target cells results in lower cytotoxicity, demonstrating the specificity of the mAbs. Furthermore, anti NTB-A  mAbs demonstrated anti-tumour activity against CA46 human lymphoma xenografts in  nude mice and against systemically disseminated Raji human lymphoma cells in severe combined immunodeficient mice. Taken together, these results demonstrate NTB-A as a potential new target for immunotherapy of leukaemia and lymphomas."
3189	"Deletion of 11q22-q23 is associated with an aggressive course of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). Since only in a subset of these cases biallelic inactivation of ATM was observed, we sought to identify other disease-associated  genes within 11q22-q23 by analysing NPAT (cell-cycle regulation), CUL5 (ubiquitin-dependent apoptosis regulation) and PPP2R1B (component of the cell-cycle and apoptosis regulating PP2A) for point mutations and their expression in B-CLL by single-strand conformation polymorphism/sequence analysis  of the transcripts and real-time polymerase chain reaction. Though none of the genes were affected by deleterious mutations, we observed a significant down-regulation of NPAT in B-CLL versus CD19+ B cells and of CUL5 in 11q deletion versus non-deletion B-CLL samples and measured reduced PPP2R1B transcript levels  in a subset of B-CLL cases. Alternative splicing of PPP2R1B transcripts (skipping of exons 2/3, 3, 9) was associated with a reduced activity of protein phosphatase 2A. Together, these results implicate deregulation of the cell-cycle and apoptosis regulators NPAT, CUL5 and PPP2R1B and a role for these genes in the pathogenesis of B-CLL."
3190	"AIM: To assess the biological significance of vascular endothelial growth factor  (VEGF) A, VEGF receptor (Flk-1) and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) expression with respect to microvessel density (MVD), proliferative activity (Ki-67), expression  of p53 and clinical presentation in a large cohort of nodal B cell lymphomas. METHODS: An immunohistochemical and morphometric study was performed on a validated tissue microarray containing 271 B cell lymphoma specimens, 197 of which included follow-up data. Statistical assessment was done by Pearson's chi(2) test, Spearman's rank correlation coefficient, analysis of variance and survival analysis. RESULTS: 266 (98%) cases were evaluable. Strong VEGF expression was observed in only 20 diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCLs). Flk-1 and COX2 were expressed in 53 and 21 cases, respectively, mainly in DLBCLs, follicular lymphoma (FL) grade 3 and mantle cell lymphomas (MCLs), in a low proportion of cells. MVD decreased in  the following order: DLBCLs, FLs, MCLs and small lymphocytic lymphomas/chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (SLL/CLLs). VEGF expression correlated with Ki-67, p53 and  COX2 expression in the whole cohort and in DLBCLs. Flk-1 expression correlated with Ki-67 in the cohort and in SLL/CLL and FL grade 1 and 2. COX2 expression correlated with Ki-67 and p53. The analysed angiogenesis parameters did not correlate with clinical parameters or survival. CONCLUSIONS: Angiogenesis plays a differential role in various B cell lymphomas.  Aggressive lymphomas express the potential molecular therapeutic targets VEGF and COX2, and have higher MVD. In a few low proliferation-fraction lymphomas, Flk-1 might have a role in proliferative advantage. Therapeutic strategies aimed at angiogenesis should take into account lymphoma heterogeneity."
3191	"The eradication of minimal residual disease (MRD) in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) predicts for improved outcome. However, the wide variety of MRD techniques makes it difficult to interpret and compare different clinical trials. Our aim was to develop a standardized flow cytometric CLL-MRD assay and compare it to real-time quantitative allele-specific oligonucleotide (RQ-ASO) Immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IgH) polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Analysis of 728 paired blood and marrow samples demonstrated high concordance (87%) for patients off-therapy. Blood analysis was equally or more sensitive than marrow in 92% of samples but marrow analysis was necessary to detect MRD within 3 months of alemtuzumab therapy. Assessment of 50 CLL-specific antibody combinations identified three (CD5/CD19 with CD20/CD38, CD81/CD22 and CD79b/CD43) with low inter-laboratory variation and false-detection rates. Experienced operators demonstrated an accuracy of 95.7% (specificity 98.8%, sensitivity 91.1%) in 141 samples with 0.01-0.1% CLL. There was close correlation and 95% concordance with  RQ-ASO IgH-PCR for detection of CLL above 0.01%. The proposed flow cytometry approach is applicable to all sample types and therapeutic regimes, and sufficiently rapid and sensitive to guide therapy to an MRD-negativity in real time. These techniques may be used as a tool for assessing response and comparing the efficacy of different therapeutic approaches."
3192	"Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is now an established treatment fora number of non-malignant and malignant conditions. Bone marrow- or peripheral blood-derived allogeneic SCT from an HLA-identical sibling or matched unrelated donor cures more than half the patients with severe aplastic anaemia, thalassaemia major, congenital immunodeficiency diseases and genetic metabolic disorders. Among the malignant conditions, acute and chronic leukaemia, multiple  myeloma, Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and high risk neuroblastoma are important conditions that can be treated by HSCT. The major morbidities associated with HSCT are regimen-related toxicities, development of acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), failure of engraftment of the bone marrow and complications related to the immunodeficiency that occurs in the post-transplant period. Peripheral blood stem cells are now being used as an alternative to bone marrow stem cells for allogeneic HSCT and exclusively for autologous HSCT. Reduced intensity conditioning for allogeneic HSCT has resulted  in a lower frequency and severity of GVHD and risk of infections. This has resulted in allogeneic HSCT being done in older patients and for those with co-morbid conditions. Patients with low grade Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and multiple myeloma appear to benefit more with this approach. Prevention of acute GVHD while maintainingthe graft-versus-tumour  effect and close monitoring of the kinetics of chimerism hold promise for improving the outcome of those receiving reduced intensity allogeneic HSCT. In recipients ofautologous HSCT, identification of patients at increased risk for relapse and use of agents (interferon, interleukin-2) post-transplant to augment  the graft-versus-tumour effect are possible areas of further research."
3194	"Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), characterised by t(11;14)(q13;q32), has a poor prognosis. Many cases have additional cytogenetic abnormalities, and often have a complex karyotype. Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) was used to study 60 cases with leukaemic presentation of MCL, to determine the frequency, clinical correlations and prognostic impact of a panel of molecular cytogenetic abnormalities: 17p13 (TP53 locus), 13q14, 12 p11.1-q11 (centromere), 6q21 and 11q23. CD38 expression, of prognostic value in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), was also studied, and correlations with clinical and cytogenetic abnormalities sought. Eighty per cent of cases had at least one abnormality in addition to t(11;14). Deletions at 17p13 (TP53) and 13q14 were most frequent and  involved the majority of the leukaemic clone. Cases with TP53 deletion were more  likely to have splenomegaly and marked leucocytosis (>30 x 10(9)/l), and less likely to have lymphadenopathy than those without deletion. Deletions at 11q23 and 6q21 were associated with extranodal disease. 13q14 and 11q23 deletions showed a trend towards worse prognosis by univariate analysis. In multivariate analysis, deletions at 13q14 and 6q21 were independent predictors of poor outcome. Deletion at 17p13 did not show prognostic impact in this series. CD38, positive in two-thirds of cases, was associated with male gender and nodal disease but not with any cytogenetic abnormality, or with survival."
3197	"AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Pancreatic islets have evolved remarkable, though poorly understood mechanisms to modify beta cell mass when nutrient intake fluctuates or cells are damaged. We hypothesised that appropriate and timely adjustments in cell number occur because beta cells release proliferative signals to surrounding cells when stimulated by nutrients and 'bleed' these growth factors upon injury. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In rat pancreatic islets, we measured DNA content, insulin content, insulin secretion after treatment, immunoblots of apoptotic proteins and the uptake of nucleoside analogues to assess the ability of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is highly concentrated in beta cells, to act as a growth and survival factor. This focus is supported by work from others demonstrating that GABA increases cell proliferation in the developing nervous system, acts as a survival factor for differentiated neurons and, interestingly, protects plants under stress. RESULTS: Our results show that DNA, insulin content and insulin secretion are higher in freshly isolated islets treated with GABA or GABA B receptor agonists.  Exposure to GABA upregulated the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia XL and limited activation of caspase 3 in islets. The cellular proliferation rate in GABA-treated islets was twice that of untreated controls. CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: We conclude that GABA serves diverse purposes in the  islet, meeting a number of functional criteria to act as an endogenous co-regulator of beta cell mass."
3198	"A case of pathologically confirmed progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy presenting with unilateral parkinsonism and cognitive decline that significantly  improved over a 12-month period without any treatment is described. The patient had a background of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, but had been in complete remission for 4 years at the time of diagnosis. This case is highly unusual not only in terms of the mode of clinical presentation in an apparently immunocompetent patient but also in that the patient spontaneously improved without any intervention. Progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis of movement disorders developing in patients with a history of lymphoproliferative disease, even if they are in remission. Furthermore, such cases may not always require treatment,  as the patient's immune system may overcome the viral disease process with spontaneous resolution of their neurological disorder."
3200	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells fail to undergo apoptosis. The mechanism underlying this resistance to cell death is still largely unknown. Tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) effectively kills tumour cells but not normal cells, and thus represents an attractive tool for the treatment of cancer. Unfortunately, lymphocytes from B-CLL patients are resistant to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. Thus, we aimed to study the involvement of PED, a DED-family member with a broad antiapoptotic action, in this resistance. We demonstrate that B lymphocytes obtained from patients with B-CLL express high  levels of PED. Treatment of B-CLL cells with specific PED antisense oligonucleotides, a protein synthesis inhibitor or HDAC inhibitors, induced a significant downregulation of PED and sensitized these cells to TRAIL-induced cell death. These findings suggest a direct involvement of PED in resistance to TRAIL-induced apoptosis in B-CLL. It also identifies this DED-family member as a  potential therapeutic target for this form of leukaemia."
3203	"In B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), cutaneous infiltration is far less common than in T-cell CLL. However, the effect of fludarabine on cutaneous infiltration in patients with B-CLL is uncertain. We describe a 63-year-old man with B-CLL presenting with cutaneous lesions, who was treated successfully with oral fludarabine. Skin biopsy of one of these lesions revealed diffuse infiltration of uniform lymphocytes. Using PCR analysis, the same immunoglobulin  heavy-chain gene rearrangement was found in lymphocytes in all samples (peripheral blood, bone marrow and skin lesion). The patient received four courses of oral fludarabine. Simultaneously with the normalization of the peripheral blood lymphocytosis, the patient became free of the cutaneous infiltration of CLL after four courses of oral fludarabine. Skin lesions had not  recurred by the 12-month follow-up examination. To our knowledge, this is the first case of B-CLL leukaemia cutis treated with oral fludarabine. The introduction of fludarabine may contribute to a better outlook for these patients in the future."
3204	"Dysregulation of the Notch-pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). We characterized the mRNA expression of Notch pathway elements in circulating normal B- and B-CLL cells, and compared expression profiles with clinical and prognostic data. Similar expression profiles were found in normal B-cells and B-CLL cells, however, most B-CLL samples showed lower Hairy/Enhancer of Split-1 expression than normal B-cells, which suggests that the pathway is not over-activated in B-CLL. The expression of Notch-pathway genes did not correlate with other prognostic factors of B-CLL. The importance of Notch-signalling in CLL cells in lymphatic tissue microenvironments remains to be determined."
3205	"Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) is a transcription factor that plays a critical role in the inappropriate survival of various types of malignant cells. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the most common B-cell malignancy in the Western world. Although overexpression and regulation of NF-kappaB has been described in  CLL, its function remains unclear. Exposure of CLL cells to BAY117082 or Kamebakaurin, potent pharmacological inhibitors of the NF-kappaB pathway, accelerated apoptosis in approximately 70% of cases. Sensitivity to NF-kappaB pathway inhibitors was not related to the prognostic markers VH status, CD38 or Zap70 expression, or to the levels of nuclear NF-kappaB. Normal peripheral B cells were resistant to the apoptosis-inducing effects of these compounds. Cell death induced by the inhibitors was associated with activation of caspase-9 and -3, and loss of mitochondrial membrane polarization, but did not involve changes  in the expression of Bcl-2 or Mcl-1. Inhibitors caused an increase in c-jun NH2-terminal kinase activity in CLL, but this did not appear to be important for  apoptosis. Microarray analysis identified some potential novel NF-kappaB target genes, including interleukin-16- and the Bcl-2- related survival protein Bcl-w. These results demonstrate that a substantial proportion of CLL are dependent on NF-kappaB for enhanced survival and suggest that inhibition of NF-kappaB may have therapeutic potential."
3206	"Immune surveillance of tumours is mediated by cytotoxic T cells (CTL) that recognise tumour antigen. Reduced reactivity of CTL towards tumour cells could thus lead to disease progression and loss of tumour control. In B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), the function of tumour-reactive CTL seems to correlate inversely to disease stage. Inhibitory NK cell receptors are known to suppress the CTL response upon interaction with major histocompatibility complex  (MHC) class I and increased expression of such receptors on CTL may inhibit the anti-tumour response. So, the aim of this study was to investigate the expression of NK cell inhibitory receptors on CTL in B-CLL patients and if such expression correlated to disease stage. CD8+ T cells from B-CLL patients in Binet stage A (n = 26) and stage C (n = 14) and healthy controls (n = 14) were analysed for the expression of killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) CD158a (KIR2DL1), CD158b (KIR2DL2), CD158e (KIR3DL1) and the C-type lectin receptor CD94, by flow cytometry analysis. Patients with advanced disease (Binet stage C) had a significantly greater percentage of CTL expressing CD158b, CD158e and CD94 than patients with non-progressive disease (Binet stage A) and healthy controls. Stage C patients also had a significantly higher percentage of CTL expressing CD158a than stage A patients. No statistically significant differences were found between Binet A patients and healthy controls. Our results suggest that increased expression of KIR and CD94 on CTL in advanced stage B-CLL may potentially contribute to the impaired anti-tumour immune response in these patients."
3207	"OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the rates of all cancers and four cancers (soft tissue sarcoma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia) associated with dioxin exposure are higher in New Plymouth, the site of a former 2,4,5-T manufacturing plant, than for the rest of New Zealand. METHODS: Analysis of 1970-2001 cancer data from the New Zealand Cancer Registry was undertaken for New Plymouth and the rest of New Zealand. RESULTS: There is no evidence of an increased cancer risk apart from one period (1970-74), which falls partly outside the 1962-1987 manufacturing period if 10-year latency is assumed. For 1970-74, there was an elevated risk for all cancer incidence (SIR = 111, 95% CI 104-119), and for two of the four specific cancers that are associated with dioxin exposure (non-Hodgkin's lymphoma SIR = 175, 95% CI 121-246 and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia SIR = 251, 95% CI 144-408). CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: The results do not suggest an increased cancer risk among the New Plymouth population related to the period of 2,4,5-T manufacture, although the study's limitations mean the possibility of an undetectable small elevation in cancer risk cannot be excluded. Although TCDD exposure in the first  few years of 2,4,5-T manufacture may have contributed to cancer incidence in 1970-74, unknown exposure(s) before the start of 2,4,5-T manufacture and chance are also possible explanations."
3208	"New therapeutic modalities have substantially improved response rates and outcomes in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), yet the mindset remains that palliation is the only goal of therapy because the disease is considered incurable. Ultimately, all patients relapse despite achieving an initial response, as minimal residual disease (MRD) persisting after therapy eventually evolves into morphological and clinical recurrence. The emergence of immune-based combination therapies capable of inducing molecular remissions, the availability  of highly sensitive assays that detect MRD, and emerging data showing a longer duration of response or longer survival in patients with no detectable disease, suggest that eradicating MRD may be a reasonable option for some patients. Moreover, novel biological prognostic markers have divided CLL into favourable and unfavourable subtypes, arguing in favour of defining different goals of therapy for different patients. Clinicians are increasingly challenged with the task of how best to incorporate MRD assessment into clinical practice, especially in an era when these novel prognostic factors exist. This review summarises the current understanding of MRD from a clinical standpoint, suggests that MRD eradication maybe a reasonable option for some patients, and argues in favour of  designing large randomised studies to determine whether MRD-negative remission improves outcome."
3210	"B-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is a heterogeneous disease characterized  by an accumulation of B lymphocytes expressing CD5. To date, the biological significance of this molecule in B-CLL B cells remains to be elucidated. In this  study, we have analysed the functional consequences of the binding of an anti-CD5 antibody on B-CLL B cells. To this purpose, we have measured the percentage of viability of B-CLL B cells in the presence or in the absence of anti-CD5 antibodies and also examined some of the biochemical events downstream the CD5-signalling. We demonstrate that anti-CD5 induces phosphorylation of protein tyrosine kinases and protein kinase C (PKC), while no activation of Akt/PKB and MAPKs is detected. This signalling cascade results in viability in a group of patients in which we observe an increase of Mcl-1 levels, whereas the levels of bcl-2, bcl-x(L) and XIAP do not change. We also report that this pathway leads to IL-10 production, an immunoregulatory cytokine that might act as an autocrine growth factor for leukaemic B cells. Inhibition of PKC prevents the induction of  Mcl-1 and IL-10, suggesting that the activation of PKC plays an important role in the CD5-mediated survival signals in B cells from a subset of B-CLL patients."
3211	"This study determined IgV(H) gene usage in 228 chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients to investigate associations between gene usage and other biological or clinical characteristics. V(H)3-48 [N=8] and V(H)3-53 [N=4] gene rearrangements showed biased lambda light chain restriction and were predominantly found in female patients with short lymphocyte doubling time but without adverse prognosis cytogenetics. Overuse of V(L)3-21(Vlambda2-14) gene and highly homologous LCDR3 sequences were found in V(H)3-48 patients. V(H)3-21 gene usage [N=18, 7.9%] was associated with poor prognosis, overuse of V(L)3-21(Vlambda2-14) gene and highly  homologous heavy- and light-chain CDR3 sequences, but was not associated with poor prognosis chromosomal aberrations."
3213	"In the present study, we aimed to investigate the parameters in serum of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and correlate with the cancer stage. The serum concentrations of ceruloplasmin, a-1-acid glycoprotein, albuminumin, transferrin, copper, zinc, manganese, and ceruloplasmin oxidase activity were measured, and compared with those from a healthy control group. The serum from 34 patients with CLL were extracted before chemotherapy. Serum transferrin, albuminumin and Zinc concentrations were lower in patients with CLL while serum a-1-acid glycoprotein, ceruloplasmin, copper concentrations, and ceruloplasmin oxidase activity were higher in CLL patients when compared with the control group. Although serum manganese concentration was lower in CLL groups than in the control group, the difference was not statistically significant. Serum transferrin concentration was lower in the early stage group compared with the advanced stage. Serum ceruloplasmin level positively correlated with serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity in patients from the early stage group. Serum ceruloplasmin level positively correlated with serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity in patients with advanced stage. In conclusion, increased serum ceruloplasmin oxidase activity, ceruloplasmin, a-1-acid glycoprotein, copper levels and decreased transferrin and albuminumin, unchanged manganese levels are  associated with CLL and appear to be a consequence of the disease itself."
3218	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) has a strong hereditary component, but an understanding of predisposition genes is poor. Anticipation with familial CLL has been reported, although the molecular mechanism is unknown. Expansion of trinucleotide repeat sequences underlies anticipation observed in neurodegenerative disease. A polymerase chain reaction-based assay was used to analyse the stability of ten CCG- and CAG-trinucleotide repeat tracts in 18 CLL families and 140 patients with the sporadic form of the disease. The study suggests that anticipation, if it occurs in CLL, is not linked to CCG- and CAG-repeat expansion, however, variation in repeat length at certain loci (FRA16A) may permit identification of susceptible family members. In addition, polymorphisms with prognostic significance were identified. These were high length (but not expanded) repeats at FRA11B (P = 0.01), ATXN1 (P = 0.032) and ATXN3 (P = 0.022), all associated with poor risk disease."
3219	"The impact of the combination therapy fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC) in comparison with fludarabine alone regarding the incidence and severity of infections among previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) was evaluated within a multicentre phase III study. A total of 375 patients, up to 65 years old, were randomised between fludarabine or FC for first line therapy. No routine anti-infective prophylaxis was provided. A total of 196  infectious episodes, including 33 severe infections, were documented. In the fludarabine arm, 32.9% of the patients developed an infectious complication compared with 39.9% in the FC arm (P = 0.2). No difference was observed in the rate of severe infections (Common Toxicity Criteria grades III and IV) between both treatment arms. Dose reductions were performed more frequently in FC-treated patients. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was administered due to leucopenia in 5% of all patients. A multivariate regression model identified only elevated thymidine kinase, but not the treatment arm, as a statistically independent risk factor for infections. In summary, FC was not associated with a  higher rate of infections compared with fludarabine alone. No routine antibiotic  or virostatic prophylaxis, or preemptive treatment with G-CSF, is necessary in first line therapy with fludarabine-based regimens in younger patients with CLL,  if adequate dose reduction is performed. The combination therapy FC is not associated with a higher rate of infections compared with fludarabine alone. No routine antibiotic or virostatic prophylaxis as well as preemptive treatment with G-CSF is necessary in first line therapy with fludarabine-based regimen in younger patients with CLL, if adequate dose reductions due to cytopenia or previous infections are performed."
3221	"OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to compare the potential economic efficiency of third-line treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with alemtuzumab versus fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR). METHODS: The target population for this study were patients with CLL who were able to tolerate third-line treatment with either FCR or alemtuzumab. The perspective used was that of the New Zealand Pharmaceutical Management Agency (PHARMAC)/District Health Board. Health outcomes considered were survival time from commencement of treatment and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained. Average costs and outcomes and incremental cost per patient treated, per survival month and per QALY gained, were calculated. All costs were presented in 2006 New  Zealand dollars. RESULTS: Base-case direct medical costs for alemtuzumab per treatment regimen per patient were $NZ15 303 lower than those for FCR. The average direct medical cost  per survival month gained for alemtuzumab was $NZ3144 and for FCR was $NZ4101, and the average direct medical cost per QALY gained was $NZ46,016 and for FCR was $NZ60,012. CONCLUSION: Third-line treatment of eligible patients with alemtuzumab was found  to be $NZ15,303 less costly than FCR per patient."
3224	"Phospholipase D (PLD) is a ubiquitous enzyme that can be activated by extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate  (PMA) in B-lymphocytes from subjects with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). In this study, ATP- but not PMA-induced PLD stimulation in CLL B-lymphocytes was abolished in the presence of an anti-P2X(7) receptor monoclonal antibody, as well as in B-lymphocytes from CLL subjects homozygous for the Glu(496) to Ala loss-of-function P2X(7) polymorphism. Rottlerin, an inhibitor of novel protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms, but not GF 109203X, an inhibitor of conventional PKC isoforms, impaired the ATP-stimulated PLD activity in CLL B-lymphocytes. In contrast, both inhibitors impaired PLD activity stimulated by PMA, a known mediator of PKC activation. The inhibition of P2X(7)-stimulated PLD activity by rottlerin was attributed to a target downstream of P2X(7) activation, as the ATP-mediated (86)Rb(+) efflux from CLL B-lymphocytes was not altered in the presence of rottlerin. Our results indicate a possible role for novel PKC isoforms in the regulation of P2X(7)-mediated PLD activity."
3225	"Zeta-associated protein-70 (ZAP-70), mostly assessed by flow-cytometry (FC), recently emerged as reliable prognostic factor in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) at presentation. We evaluated ZAP-70 expression in 156 CLL patients by immunohistochemistry (IHC) on formalin-fixed bone marrow (BM) biopsies at diagnosis. At presentation, 117 patients (75%) were with Binet stage A, 27 (17%)  stage B and 12 (8%) stage C. Median follow-up was 61 months (range 6-242). ZAP-70 was expressed in neoplastic lymphocytes of 69 patients (44%). Concordance between ZAP-70 by IHC and ZAP-70 by FC, immunoglobulin heavy chain variable genes (IGHV)  mutational status and CD38 expression was found in 41/46 (89%), 41/49 (80%) and in 60/88 (68%) tested cases, respectively. ZAP-70 expression significantly correlated with advanced Binet stage (B-C), diffuse BM infiltration, increased lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and beta2-microglobulin serum levels and lymphocyte doubling time <12 months. ZAP-70 positivity was significantly related to poorer time to progression (median 16 months vs 158 of ZAP-70-negative cases) (P<0.0001) and overall survival (median 106 months vs not reached) (P=0.0002); this correlation was confirmed at multivariate analysis. ZAP-70 expression correlated  with poorer outcome also when evaluated only in the 117 stage A patients. In conclusion, immunohistological detection of ZAP-70 on formalin-fixed BM biopsies  at diagnosis appears a useful methodological approach to identify patients with poor prognosis in CLL."
3227	"BACKGROUND: Splenic lymphoma with villous lymphocytes (SLVL) is a rare but recognized distinct disease entity among chronic B lymphoproliferative disorders. It is frequently misdiagnosed as chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, (CLL) Prolymphocytic leukaemia or Hairy Cell leukaemia. Few cases have been reported worldwide. METHOD: The case records of a sixty year old Nigerian male with a splenic lymphoma and a review of the literature on the subject using MEDLINE, other internet sources and manual library search was utilized. RESULT A sixty-year-old  male with splenic lymphoma with villous lymphocytes, seen at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital Zaria is presented. However review of the blood film, bone marrow and Splenic aspirates showed absolute lymphocytosis, consisting of "villous" lymphocytes. He was commenced on an alkylating agent and a glucocorticoid, with partial remission in the first three months but was lost to  follow up. CONCLUSION: Adequate morphologic evaluation is advocated particularly in the resource limited settings were Cytogenetics, immunohistochemistry and immunophenotyping are not available."
3230	"AIMS AND BACKGROUND: The co-existence of mesothelioma, mostly asbestos-related, and other primary malignancies has repeatedly been reported. The present study evaluated the frequency of such an occurrence. METHODS: In the period October 1979-June 2002, 215 cases of malignant pleural mesothelioma were diagnosed at the Hospital of Monfalcone, Italy. All the cases of the above series, examined at necropsy (169), were included in the study. Occupational histories had been obtained from the patients or from their relatives by personal or telephone interviews. In 132 cases, asbestos bodies were isolated after chemical digestion of lung samples. The thoracic cavities were examined for pleural plaques. RESULTS: Additional malignancies were observed in 32 cases (18.9%). Multiple tumors were synchronous in 22 cases, metachronous in 8 cases, and synchronous and metachronous in 2. Four different tumors were found in 2 cases, 3 malignancies were detected in 6 patients, and 2 malignancies in the remaining 24. The most frequent additional malignancies were prostate adenocarcinoma (7 cases), non-Hodgkin lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (5 cases), bladder carcinoma (4 cases), kidney carcinoma (4 cases), large bowel carcinoma (4 cases), and liver cell carcinoma (4 cases). All the patients had histories of exposure to asbestos, mostly in shipbuilding. Lung asbestos body burdens ranged between 60 and 230,000 per gram of dried tissue. Pleural plaques were found in 26 cases. CONCLUSIONS: In contrast with other series of the literature, in the present cases the co-existence of mesothelioma and other malignancies appeared as a relatively frequent event. The lack of a control group does not allow definite conclusions about the meaning of the occurrence. However, the co-existence of certain tumors with asbestos-related mesothelioma suggests that mesothelioma and  associated malignancies might share some etiologic factors (asbestos and others)."
3231	"mRNA/cDNA gene expression of both small leucine-rich proteoglycans decorin and biglycan was evaluated by PCR real time in lymphocytes collected from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) at different stages of disease and from  healthy controls. Lymphocytes obtained from healthy controls showed no or very low levels of mRNA expression of both decorin and biglycan. Biglycan expression was very low in CLL patients, values being close to those of controls. On the contrary, decorin mRNA was clearly expressed in patients with early B-cell CLL, while a low expression was found in advanced clinical stages. Furthermore, a significant higher decorin expression was found in patients with non-progressive  CLL type in comparison with patients with aggressive type of the disease. Decorin expression resulted especially high in the low-progressive low-risk patients. The synthesis of decorin was also assessed by Western blot analysis. The peculiar occurrence of decorin in the non-aggressive type of CLL is consistent with its suggested anti-oncogenic role. Intracellular Bcl-2 level does not correlate with  decorin mRNA transcription, suggesting that a Bcl-2 independent anti-cancer mechanism may occur. The measurement of galactosamine-containing proteoglycans concentration in plasma confirmed decorin expression results, with significant differences between CLL patients and controls. Significant changes were also seen between groups of patients of Rai stage 0 with recent diagnosis (less than 5 years, from analysis), (low amount of decorin) and less recent diagnosis (more than 5 years), (high amount of decorin)."
3233	"There is lack of information about the relative prevalence of haematological disorders in Yemen and other Middle East countries. The aim of this study was to  evaluate the pattern of haematological diseases diagnosed by bone marrow examination in Yemen considering the limited diagnostic facilities. At the referral haematology centre in Yemen, between November 1999 and November 2005, 785 patients >14 years old were evaluated by bone marrow examination. Relevant investigations were performed when needed. A total of 627 patients had haematological disorders other than lymphoma, and their data were analysed. There were 273 females and 354 males. A total of 159 patients had Acute myeloid leukaemia, 75 had acute lymphocytic leukaemia, 87 had chronic myeloid leukaemia,  36 chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, eight had multiple myeloma, 13 myelodysplastic  syndromes, seven myelofibrosis, seven polycythaemia vera, three primary thrombocythaemia, two hairy cell leukaemia, two metastases, 36 aplastic anaemia,  29 immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), nine autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, three pernicious anaemia, 65 iron deficiency anaemia, 57 megaloblastic anaemia and malaria, 18 mixed deficiencies, and 11 patients had visceral leishmaniasis. Sex- and age-related distribution of the various disorders was also presented. In conclusion, the leukaemias were the most frequently encountered diagnosis followed by iron deficiency anaemia, megaloblastic anaemia and malaria, aplastic  anaemia and ITP respectively. The other haematological disorders were less common. These findings are comparable with that seen in other developing and developed countries."
3234	"Interactions between environment and immune system play an essential role in the  aetiology of immunopathologies, including lymphomas. Toll-like receptors (TLR) belong to a group of pattern recognition receptors, with importance for innate immune response and inflammatory processes. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a key regulatory cytokine and has been implicated in lymphomagenesis. Functional polymorphisms in these inflammation-associated genes may affect the susceptibility towards lymphoma. To test this hypothesis, we have genotyped DNA of 710 lymphoma cases and 710 controls within the context of a population-based epidemiological study for 11 functionally important single-nucleotide polymorphisms in TLR1, -2, -4, -5, -9, IL10 and IL10 receptor (IL10RA). The IL10RA Ser138Gly variant was underrepresented among lymphoma cases (odds ratio (OR)=0.81, 95 per cent confidence interval (95% CI)=0.65-1.02), mainly owing to an inverse association with Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL). The TLR2 -16933T>A variant was associated with a 2.8-fold increased risk of follicular lymphoma (95% CI=1.43-5.59) and a decreased risk of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (OR=0.61, 95% CI=0.38-0.95). Furthermore, the TLR4 Asp299Gly variant was positively associated  with the risk of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma (OR=2.76, 95% CI=1.12-6.81) and HL (OR=1.80, 95% CI=0.99-3.26). In conclusion, this study suggests an effect of polymorphisms in factors of the innate immune response in the aetiology of some lymphoma subtypes."
3235	"In a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) molecular cytogenetics showed terminal del(14)(q24). Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) narrowed  the deletion to a 35 megabases DNA segment, with the proximal breakpoint between  two partially overlapping clones, RP1-116J24 and RP5-1119N5. Besides loss of material at 14q24-qter, comparative genomic hybridisation (CGH) showed loss of 3p21.3-pter, 4p11-p15.1, 8p12-pter, 13q12-q14, and 15q11-q15, and gain of 3q25-qter. Del(13)(q12-14) included the RB-1 gene but not D13S319 and D13S25 loci. The patient was refractory to fludarabine and rituximab. Our findings and data from other reports suggest del(14)(q24) is indicative of aggressive course and is closely associated with del(13)(q14) in CLL."
3236	"Depletion of disease below the levels detected by sensitive minimal residual disease (MRD) assays is associated with prolonged survival in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Flow cytometric MRD assays are now sufficiently sensitive and rapid to guide the duration of therapy in CLL, but generally rely on assessment of CD20 expression, which cannot be accurately measured during and after therapeutic approaches containing rituximab. The aim of this study was to use analytical software developed for microarray analysis to provide a systematic approach for MRD flow assay development. Samples from CLL patients (n=49), normal controls (n=21) and other B-lymphoproliferative disorders (n=12) were assessed with a panel of 66 antibodies. The DNA-Chip analysis program was used to identify discriminating antibodies, with hierarchical cluster analysis to identify complementary combinations. An iterative process was used: increasing numbers of  patients were assessed with smaller, more targeted antibody panels until a highly specific combination (CD81/CD22/CD19/CD5) was identified. This combination was as sensitive and specific as previously reported assays and potentially applicable to blood and marrow samples from patients treated with current therapeutic approaches including rituximab. This approach to the identification of disease-specific antibody combinations for MRD analysis is readily applicable to  a variety of haematological disorders."
3237	"There is a significant association between non-Hodgkin lymphoma, including chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, and both melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer. This review highlights the existing data on the phenomenon of accelerated skin cancer in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and specifically chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. The outcomes of patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (including chronic  lymphocytic leukaemia) and non-melanoma skin cancer are worse than in patients without concomitant lymphoreticular malignancy, as shown by increased rates of local recurrence, regional metastasis and death. Pathogenic factors may be common between non-Hodgkin lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and skin cancer. The treatment of skin cancer in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma must factor in the worse prognosis and adapt standard therapeutic approaches to minimize the risk of metastasis and death. Preventive strategies and early detection are paramount in this high-risk population."
3238	"This study examined the ability of the semi-synthetic vinca alkaloid, Vinorelbine/Navelbine, to cause apoptotic death in freshly obtained primary leukaemia cells from 53 patients with haematological malignancies, including 22 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), 24 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), three patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia in blast crisis (CML-BC) and four patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Vinorelbine caused apoptosis in primary leukaemia cells from 42 (79%) of these leukaemia patients. Objective responses, including complete remission (CR) and CR with incomplete haematological recovery, were achieved in 12 of 17 (71%) patients with aggressive and therapy-refractory leukaemias, including five of nine patients with relapsed ALL, three of three patients with CML-BC and four of five  patients with rapidly progressive CLL, who were treated with a vinorelbine-based  salvage chemotherapy regimen. Drug sensitivity profiling of multidrug-resistant primary cancer cells using apoptosis assays revealed a significant association between Vinorelbine sensitivity in vitro and the likelihood of an objective clinical response to Vinorelbine-based chemotherapy. Vinorelbine-sensitivity testing of primary leukaemia cells might help tailor Vinorelbine-based salvage regimens to those patients who are most likely to respond."
3239	"This study aimed at characterising the distribution of human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-C alleles in a large group of patients with B chronic lymphocytic leukaemia from Southeastern Spain. Ninety-eight adult patients and 194 geographically and ethnically matched controls were studied. HLA-C was determined by polymerase chain reaction sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP) and PCR-sequence-specific oligonucleotides (SSO) methods. The HLA-Cw*16 allele frequency was found to be significantly increased amongst patients compared with controls in our population (27.6% vs. 12.4%, P = 0.0012, Pc = 0.016). HLA-C dimorphism was also analysed but no association was found."
3240	"In this pilot study, T-cell receptor B-variable (TCR-BV) gene usage in CD4 and CD8 T cells was assessed, by real-time polymerase chain reaction, as well as complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3)-length polymorphism, before and after therapy in five patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia who received alemtuzumab (anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody) as first-line therapy. A decline in expression of most BV family genes in both CD4 and CD8 T cells was observed after alemtuzumab treatment, which was followed by a gradual increase in most BV families during long-term follow-up. After treatment, CDR3-length polymorphism showed an even more restricted pattern in CD4 T cells compared with pretreatment, with a shift towards a monoclonal/oligoclonal pattern. The clonally restricted pattern was significantly reduced in CD4 (P < 0.01) but not in CD8 T cells. This  was followed by a gradual increase in the number of peaks within the CDR3 region  of the different TCR-BV families, i.e. a polyclonal repertoire, during long-term  follow-up. A restricted CDR3 pattern became even more restricted after treatment, but normalised during unmaintained follow-up. These results indicate that perturbations in the T-cell alterations following alemtuzumab are complex and include not only changes in CD4/CD8 T-cell numbers but also a highly restricted T-cell repertoire especially in CD4 T cells."
3241	"To investigate potential associations between several autoimmune diseases and haematological malignancies, we studied 39,908 cases of leukaemia, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and myeloma that occurred during 1987-1999 in Sweden, and 149,344 controls. Hospital discharge diagnoses of psoriasis, Sjögren's syndrome, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, pernicious anaemia, multiple sclerosis, rheumatic fever or asthma from 1969 to 1999 were retrieved from the Swedish Hospital Discharge Registry. Psoriasis was positively associated with leukaemia, excluding chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, (odds ratio [OR]=1.6, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.1-2.3) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (OR=1.6, 95% CI 1.3-2.1). Sjögren's syndrome increased the risks of all haematological malignancies combined (OR=4.0, 95% CI 2.3-7.0), and of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (OR=6.4, 95% CI 3.5-12). These findings, together with  increased risks of several haematological malignancies in autoimmune haemolytic anaemia and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura but not in asthma, suggest chronic autoimmunity and immune stimulation as mechanisms contributing to the development of haematological malignancies."
3242	"The chronic leukaemias include two distinct chronic neoplastic disease states, namely chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). The aim of this study was to assess the utility of leucocyte count, neutrophil percentage and absolute lymphocyte count from differential complete blood count analyses as indicators of the possible presence of CML and CLL. Blood counts from 102 patients with histopathologically confirmed CML and CLL were compared with counts for 858 cancer-free control subjects. Optimal cut-off values were identified by selecting values with the highest sensitivity-specificity combination for each blood count parameter for the two diseases. The results indicated that any individual with mature-appearing lymphocytes at a level > 6.65 x 10(9)/l in the peripheral blood should be examined further for CLL, and that any individual with a leucocyte count > 18.0 x 10(9)/l or a neutrophil proportion > 72.6% should be investigated for CML."
3243	"OBJECTIVE: The phenomenon of cancer-to-cancer metastasis of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) is a rare event and only occasionally documented in the medical literature. METHODS: Two patients with SCC of the skin that were previously treated for CLL are presented. Both had palpable lymph nodes in the neck and fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) was performed to evaluate the pathological process. In addition, the literature on cutaneous SCC metastatic to CLL/SLL with special emphasis on the role of FNAC in this specific clinical situation was reviewed. RESULTS: On examination of the FNAC smear, cancer-to-cancer metastasis of cutaneous SCC to lymph node replaced by CLL was found. In one of the patients, light microscopy examination of the smear was complemented by immunostaining of atypical cells with cytokeratin antibodies and immunophenotyping of lymphoid cells by flow cytometry. In addition to our two patients, nine cases of cutaneous SCC metastatic to CLL/SLL have been reported in the literature, and in only one was the diagnosis made by FNAC. CONCLUSION: FNAC supported by ancillary immunocytological techniques could also be used in diagnosis of specific clinical situations such as cancer-to-cancer metastasis of the tandem of SCC-CLL/SLL."
3244	"Lymphomas have a potentially important familial component; large studies using recent classification systems are lacking. Based on a multicentre case-control study in seven European countries, we recruited 2480 cases of lymphoid neoplasms  (LN) and 2540 controls, matched by country, age and sex. Diagnoses were established according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) classification. We estimated odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for cancer in first-degree relatives and for the kind of relative affected. The OR of LN for a  family history of haematological cancer was 1.6 (OR=1.2-2.1). The OR was particularly high for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (OR=2.9 [1.9-4.5]). A familial case of lymphoma increased the risk of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) (OR=3.4 [1.5-7.8]). No increased risk was observed for diffuse large B-cell and follicular lymphomas. For CLL and HL, the risk was similar in parents, offspring  and siblings. Our study suggests familial aggregation of CLL with a family history of haematological cancer and of HL with a family history of lymphoma. The transmission pattern suggests a dominant model of heredity."
3245	"OBJECTIVE: Serum thymidine kinase (TK) levels have been shown to be correlated with survival in many malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). This study was designed to investigate associations between TK levels and  other prognostic markers, in newly and previously diagnosed Binet stage A patients. Furthermore, the use of serum TK measurement to identify subcategories  of disease within those defined by IgV(H) mutational status, gene usage and chromosomal aberrations was investigated. METHODS: Ninety-one CLL patients were enrolled. Serum TK levels were measured using a radioenzyme assay. IgV(H) mutational status and V(H) gene usage were determined using BIOMED-2 primers and protocol. Recurring chromosomal abnormalities were detected by interphase fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH). Flow cytometry and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) determined CD38 and Zap-70 expression, respectively. RESULTS: Significantly higher serum TK levels were found in IgV(H) unmutated, compared with IgV(H) mutated, patients (P < 0.001). Elevated TK levels were also  found in patients with CD38 and Zap-70 positivity (P = 0.004, P < 0.001, respectively), short lymphocyte doubling time (LDT) (P = 0.044) and poor or intermediate prognosis chromosomal aberrations (P < 0.001). CONCLUSION: A TK level of >8.5 U/L best identified patients with progressive disease. Elevated TK levels could identify patients categorised, at diagnosis, into good prognosis subgroups by the various biological markers (mutated IgV(H),  good prognosis chromosomal aberrations, Zap-70(-) and CD38(-)) who subsequently showed disease progression. Additionally, patients with V(H)3-21 gene usage showed high TK levels, irrespective of mutational status, and serum TK measurement retained predictive power as disease progressed in all subcategories  studied."
3246	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is a heterogenous disease with a highly variable clinical course and analysis of zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) and CD38 expression on B-CLL cells allowed for identification of patients with good (ZAP-70-CD38-) and poor (ZAP-70+CD38+) prognosis. DNA microarray technology was employed to compare eight ZAP-70+CD38+ with eight ZAP-70-CD38- B-CLL cases. The expression of 358 genes differed significantly between the two subgroups, including genes involved in B-cell receptor signaling, angiogenesis and lymphomagenesis. Three of these genes, that is, immune receptor  translocation-associated protein 4 (IRTA4)/Fc receptor homologue 2 (FcRH2), angiopoietin 2 (ANGPT2) and Pim2 were selected for further validating studies in  a cohort of 94 B-CLL patients. IRTA4/FcRH2 expression as detected by flow cytometry was significantly lower in the poor prognosis subgroup as compared to ZAP-70-CD38- B-CLL cells. In healthy individuals, IRTA4/FcRH2 protein expression  was associated with a CD19+CD27+ memory cell phenotype. ANGPT2 plasma concentrations were twofold higher in the poor prognosis subgroup (P<0.05). Pim2  was significantly overexpressed in poor prognosis cases and Binet stage C. Disease progression may be related to proangiogenic processes and strong Pim2 expression."
3247	"The whole field of Oncology benefits from the huge amount of basic science "invested" and from the experience accumulated during several decades that enables more patients with malignant diseases to be cured or to survive for longer periods. Incidence and mortality rates from cancer have been decreasing by around 1 % per year since the mid-nineties of the past century in the European Union. However, the spectrum of malignant diseases and the outcome is not equally distributed between the two sexes. Startlingly, in advanced cancers, women receiving the same treatment schemes as men fare better. Until recently, however, the pharmacological knowledge of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic action of cytotoxic drugs was scarce for women, as like in other fields of medicine, studies recruited far more men than women and because results were often not reported separately for both sexes. These practices are slowly changing and gender specific outcome data are progressively accumulating. Such data on gender-specific differences or similarities are essential for building newer, more adequate tools for dosing drugs than the current form based on a "falsely accurate and individualzed" estimation of the body surface area. Nevertheless, the socioeconomical and sociocultural context of living remains genderspecifically different, influencing the coping of individuals with a life-threatening disease. On the other hand, as recently shown for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, gender-specific analysis might open new insights in the biology of the disease and modify treatment strategies."
3249	"BACKGROUND: Several inflammatory conditions are associated with an increased risk of lymphoma. The specific features of inflammation that mediate this risk are unknown. There are few studies on whether ankylosing spondylitis increases the risk of lymphoma. Besides inflammation-lymphoma aetiology, information on risk of lymphoma in ankylosing spondylitis is particularly important as a benchmark in the evaluation of, for example, tumour necrosis factor inhibitors. METHODS: The association between ankylosing spondylitis and malignant lymphomas overall, and separately for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, was assessed in a nationwide, population-based case-control study of 50 615 cases of lymphoma and 92 928 matched controls by using prospectively recorded data on lymphomas from the Swedish Cancer Register (1964-2000) and data on pre-lymphoma hospitalisations for ankylosing spondylitis  from the Swedish Inpatient Register (1964-2000). The odds ratios (ORs) associated with pre-lymphoma hospitalisation for ankylosing spondylitis were calculated using conditional logistic regression. RESULTS: 23 (0.05%) patients with lymphoma and 41 (0.05%) controls had a pre-lymphoma hospitalisation listing ankylosing spondylitis, relative risk = 1.0  (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.6 to 1.7). The number of discharges and the mean  latency between ankylosing spondylitis and lymphoma were similar in patients and  controls. Analyses restricted to lymphomas diagnosed during the 1990s showed similar results (OR = 1.3, 95% CI 0.6 to 2.5, number of exposed cases/controls =  14/21). CONCLUSIONS: On average and in the absence of tumour necrosis factor inhibitors,  patients hospitalised with ankylosing spondylitis do not appreciably show an increased risk of lymphoma."
3251	"While advances have been made in the clinical treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) in recent years, it is still an incurable disease and therefore the identification of novel drug therapies is of paramount importance. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that govern the survival of CLL cells is fundamental in achieving this goal. A number of studies indicate that protein kinase C (PKC)- and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)- mediated signalling pathways are central to CLL cell survival, and as such PKC has gained renewed interest as a potential drug target in CLL. This may be because it represents a closely-related family of ten protein kinases, which due to the redundancy that exists between isoforms offers an opportunity for the design of isoform specific  inhibitors drugs that target leukaemic cells whilst showing reduced toxicity for  normal cells. Indeed, PKC signalling pathways have already been considered as targets for specific anticancer drugs [1-3]. Therefore, this short review will focus on the effect of modulating PKC activity in CLL cells and explore whether targeting PKCs could represent a valid therapy for this leukaemia."
3252	"BACKGROUND: INK4 (p15, p16, p18 and p19) and CIP/KIP (p21, p27 and p57) are two families of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKI) targeting CDK4/6 and CDK2, respectively. AIM: To study the role of methylation in the inactivation of CKI in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction was carried out on DNA obtained from the bone marrow of 56 newly diagnosed patients with CLL. RESULTS: Similar demographic features and clinical outcome were observed in our patients when compared with Caucasian patients, including an indolent clinical course (10-year overall survival 51%) and advanced Rai stage (p = 0.006), and a high-risk karyotype such as trisomy 12 and complex aberrations (p = 0.03). In the INK4 family, methylation in p15 and p16 occurred in 20 (35.7%) and 8 (14.3%) patients, respectively. In all, 5 (8.9%) CLL samples harboured concurrent methylation of both p15 and p16. Apart from an association of p16 methylation with higher presenting leucocyte count (64.5 x 10(9)/l in methylated p16 and 16.0 x 10(9)/l in unmethylated p16 patients; p = 0.016), there was no association between p15 and p16 methylation and age, sex and Rai stage. No difference was observed in the overall survival for patients with and without p15 and p16 methylation. By contrast, p18 and Rb were unmethylated in all samples. In the CIP/KIP family, apart from infrequent methylation of p57 in 4 (7.1%) patients, methylation of p21 and p27 was uniformly absent. CONCLUSION: p15 and, less frequently, p16 of the INK4 family of CKI, instead of the CIP or KIP family, were targeted by methylation in CLL. p16 methylation was associated with a higher lymphocyte count at presentation. This is the first comprehensive study of the epigenetic dysregulation of the INK4 and CIP/KIP families of CKI in Chinese patients with CLL."
3253	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is characterised by the accumulation of mature B lymphocytes. Defects in the tumour suppressor gene p53 pathway are known to be important in CLL and p53 inactivation is associated with a particularly aggressive form of CLL. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in codon 72 of TP53 leads to a single amino acid change leading to a change in apoptotic potential and alters prognosis in squamous carcinomas. A polymorphism within intron 6 of TP53 has been postulated to alter the susceptibility to lung cancer.  Our study looked at the influence of these two polymorphisms in a cohort of approximately 200 CLL patients. The codon 72 polymorphism A2/A2 genotype (homozygous arginine) was associated with an increased susceptibility to CLL and  CD38 negativity but did not appear to influence other biological behaviour or clinical response. The intron 6 polymorphism A2/A2 genotype was strongly associated with early stage disease, CD38 negativity and a longer time to first treatment. The effect on time to treatment did not retain significance in multivariate analysis and the polymorphism did not predict for overall survival (OS). Detailed investigation of the complete TP53 genotype is warranted to further characterise the role of SNPs in p53 and their influence on CLL."
3255	"The identification of activated oncogenes, such as the bcl-2, in several types of cancer has made it possible to consider such genes as targets for antitumor therapy. Bcl-2 is an anti-apoptotic protein, whose overexpression is associated with chemotherapy resistant cancer, aggressive clinical course and poor survival. The development of novel targeted gene-silencing strategies, such as those based  on the use of antisense oligonucleotides, represents a renewed hope in the treatment of cancer. Within this scope, this review covers the main pre-clinical  aspects and the most recent clinical data obtained with Oblimersen sodium (Genta  Inc.). Oblimersen is a 18-mer phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotide designed to bind to the first six codons of the human bcl-2 mRNA. Phase I/II trials indicate that infusion of Oblimersen provides biologically relevant plasma levels that lead to downregulation of target Bcl-2 protein. Moreover, the use of Oblimersen in combination with chemotherapy in a variety of cancers has shown promising response rates with good tolerability. Randomized phase III trials are  currently underway to evaluate whether the combined use of Oblimersen with standard treatment is superior to standard treatment alone in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, malignant melanoma and multiple myeloma. Overall, the enhanced efficacy of anticancer treatments of this bcl-2-targeted antisense therapy represents a promising new apoptosis-modulating strategy."
3256	"Flow cytometry is useful to study lymphoid malignancies since it allows both immunophenotyping of neoplastic cells and quantification of antigen expression. CD18 and CD45 are commonly exposed membrane antigens with different levels of expression on blood leukocyte and neoplastic cells. The aim of this retrospective study was to semi-quantitatively evaluate the expression of CD18 and CD45 in dogs with different lymphoid malignancies with blood involvement and to compare results with those from healthy dogs and dogs with reactive diseases. Blood samples from 13 dogs with precursor lymphoid malignancies, 20 with mature neoplasms (either chronic lymphocytic leukaemia or lymphoma), of different immunophenotypes, were compared with 24 healthy dogs and 12 dogs with different reactive diseases. The median fluorescence intensity (MFI) for CD18 and CD45 was  recorded on lymphoid and granulocytic populations using dual colour flow cytometry, and the ratio between MFI for lymphoid and granulocytic populations (L/N ratio) was calculated to compare the results obtained in different sessions  using an internal control (granulocyte fluorescence intensity). Significant decreases in the L/N ratio were detected in neoplastic samples for both CD18 (either precursors or mature versus controls) and CD45 (either precursors or mature versus control), while using MFI only slight differences were detectable in CD45 between precursors and controls. Neoplastic cells often exhibited lower expression of the L/N ratio for CD18, and mainly for CD45, most likely due to a less mature pattern than normal cells and/or to an aberrant quantitative expression of surface antigen. Moreover, more than 50% of neoplastic lymphoid cells exhibited L/N ratios that were not within the values observed in controls for at least one antigen. Altered L/N ratios, in particular decreases of CD45, were mainly observed in precursor neoplasms and in T-cell neoplasms. Detection of altered expression of common antigens, and in particular a L/N ratio for CD45 lower than a value of 103% may be useful as a confirmation of pseudo-clonality thus helping in differentiating reactive and neoplastic lymphocyte expansions."
3257	"BACKGROUND: The importance of vascular occlusion in the pathogenesis of human haemoprotozoal disease is unresolved. METHODS: Giemsa-stained tissue sections from a human case of Babesia microti infection in a splenectomized patient with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and colon cancer were examined to ascertain the distribution of parasitized erythrocytes within the vascular lumen. RESULTS: No evidence of sequestration was observed. CONCLUSION: This first report on the vascular location of B. microti in human tissue suggests that severe multi-organ failure due to babesiosis is independent  of sequestration of parasitized erythrocytes. A similar pathogenesis may also cause multi-organ failure in other intraerythrocytic protozoal infections, including falciparum malaria."
3258	"Squamous cell carcinoma in situ has the potential to progress to invasive squamous cell carcinoma. This report presents two cases of punch biopsy-proven squamous cell carcinoma in situ, treated with once-daily application of 5% imiquimod cream for 6 weeks. Both patients developed moderate local inflammatory  reactions during treatment. The first patient demonstrated clinical clearance of  the scalp lesion after treatment. Two months later, he re-presented with a subcutaneous nodule at the same site. Histology was consistent with recurrent squamous cell carcinoma. Five months following excision of the recurrent tumour,  he presented with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma to a cervical lymph node. The second patient had low-grade chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and presented with squamous cell carcinoma in situ of the leg that failed to clear clinically after  treatment with imiquimod. He presented 4 months later with a focus of invasive squamous cell carcinoma within the lesion."
3259	"BACKGROUND: The coexistence of mycosis fungoides, a peripheral T-cell lymphoma, and B-cell malignancies or Hodgkin's lymphoma in the same patient is unusual. Most descriptions are isolated case reports and case series are strikingly sparse. OBJECTIVES: To detect cases of mycosis fungoides associated with B-cell malignancies or Hodgkin's lymphoma and to analyse the characteristics of and the  interplay between the lymphoproliferative neoplasms. METHODS: Patients with mycosis fungoides who had B-cell malignancies or Hodgkin's lymphoma were selected from among 398 patients either treated or followed up in two tertiary medical centres during a 7-year period. RESULTS: Eleven patients with mycosis fungoides and B-cell malignancy were detected (seven of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, three of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, one of multiple myeloma). No case of Hodgkin's lymphoma was found. In  seven patients the mycosis fungoides preceded the B-cell malignancy whereas in four it was the B-cell malignancy which occurred first. The time elapsed between  onset of the two malignancies ranged from 4 to 22 years (average: 12 years). Patients who had mycosis fungoides as the first neoplasm presented with earlier stages of mycosis fungoides (four of seven: IA, three of seven: IB) than those who had mycosis fungoides as their second neoplasm (of four, one: IB, one: folliculotropic, two: IIB). Among the four patients in whom the appearance of mycosis fungoides followed the B-cell malignancy, three had been treated with multiagent chemotherapy. Two patients who presented with early-stage mycosis fungoides (IA) as the first lymphoma developed mycosis fungoides tumours after becoming immunosuppressed. In two patients infiltrates composed of both malignant T- and B-cell populations were found in a single biopsy. One showed two distinct  populations of the malignant cells in the skin tumour, thus constituting a classical composite lymphoma of mycosis fungoides and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, while in the other patient the two malignant populations of marginal B-cell lymphoma and mycosis fungoides (as evidenced by both phenotypic and genotypic findings) were intermingled. CONCLUSIONS: This case series indicates that while the coexistence of Hodgkin's lymphoma and mycosis fungoides is extremely rare, the association of mycosis fungoides and B-cell malignancies is not as rare as reflected in the literature,  with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma constituting the most common associated B-cell malignancy. In this series as well as in the cases reported in the literature mycosis fungoides usually preceded the development of B-cell malignancies, which  may be in accordance with previous reports of an increased risk of developing a second haematological neoplasm. The importance of a competent immune system for patients with mycosis fungoides is well demonstrated in these cases. It is suggested that for greater precision the criteria for diagnosis of composite lymphoma of the skin should include both phenotypic and genotypic features."
3260	"BACKGROUND: Recent trials suggest improved response rates for purine analogues compared to alkylator-based regimens in the treatment of B-CLL. However, none was able to show a survival advantage. Thus, a systematic Cochrane review may be able to further define the role of purine analogues in the first-line treatment of B-CLL. METHODS: Randomized controlled trials comparing single-agent purine analogues with alkylator-based regimens were included. Medical databases (Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE), conference proceedings and trial registers were searched. We included full-text and abstract publications as well as unpublished data. Relative risks (RR) and hazard ratios (HR) were calculated under a fixed-effects  model, clinical and statistical heterogeneity was examined with sensitivity analyses and meta-regression. If applicable, numbers needed to treat or harm (NNT, NNH) were also determined. FINDINGS: Five trials with 1838 randomized patients were included. Importantly, four trials had a cross-over design. There was a trend for improved overall survival for patients receiving purine analogues as initial therapy but statistical significance was just not reached (HR 0.89 [95% CI 0.78-1.01]). The RR for achieving an overall (RR 1.22 [95% CI 1.13-1.31]; NNT 8 [95% CI 6-13]) and complete response (RR 1.94 [95% CI 1.65-2.28]; NNT 6 [5-8]) was significantly improved, resulting in a longer progression-free survival (HR 0.70 [95% CI 0.61-0.82]). Incidence of grade III/IV infections (RR 1.83 [95% CI 1.30-2.58]; NNH 20 [95% CI 12.5-50]) and haemolytic anaemia (RR 3.36 [95% CI 1.27-8.91]; NNH  21 [95% CI 6-185]) was significantly higher in patients receiving purine analogues. INTERPRETATION: Despite significantly increased response rates and longer progression-free survival with purine analogues as first-line therapy, we were not able to detect a statistically significant improvement of overall survival compared to alkylator-based regimens. Furthermore, the use of purine analogues augments the risk for grade III/IV infections and haemolytic anaemia."
3262	"Data on the incidence and causes of late (>100 d) non-relapse mortality (NRM) in  autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) recipients is limited. We have analysed NRM in a cohort of 1,482 adult patients who received ASCT in 1990-2003 in six Finnish transplant centres. The most common diagnoses included non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) (n = 542), multiple myeloma (MM) (n = 528), breast cancer (n = 132); Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) (n = 86) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (n = 63). Until September 2005, 646 patients (44%) have died. Late NRM was observed  in 68 patients (4.6% of ASCT recipients; 11% of all deaths). There were 38 males  and 30 females with a median age of 58 yr (20-69) at the time of ASCT. The median time to NRM was 27 months from ASCT (3-112). The risk of NRM was highest in patients with CLL (9.5%) and those with HL (8.1%) followed by MM and NHL (4.9% and 4.8%, respectively). The risk of late NRM was comparable in patients who received total body irradiation (TBI) and those who received chemotherapy-only regimens (6.7% vs. 4.3%). Another malignancy was the most common cause of late NRM (24 patients, 35% of late NRM). Twelve patients (0.8% of ASCT recipients) have died due to secondary haematological malignancy. Altogether 22 patients (32% of late NRM) died from infectious causes. Malignancies and late infections are important causes of NRM after ASCT. These facts point out the importance of prolonged follow-up in ASCT recipients."
3263	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the most common leukaemia in the Western world. Historically, CLL patients have received prednisone- or chlorambucil-containing regimens, resulting in modest responses and a slim chance of long-term survival. The addition of purine nucleoside analogues, specifically  fludarabine, to the armamentarium has significantly improved efficacy in treatment-naive or heavily pretreated CLL patients. Since the 1980s, fludarabine  monotherapy has demonstrated an improvement in response over historical chemotherapeutic agents. Single-agent fludarabine therapy has expanded into a combination regimen containing cyclophosphamide and has further evolved to incorporate monoclonal antibodies. A review of the fludarabine literature shows that these advancements in fludarabine-containing therapy have enhanced the overall patient response with a potential increase in survival time, thus representing progress towards a superior treatment for CLL."
3264	"Fludarabine is used widely for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, but not as yet implicated in the emergence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) variants following hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation. Such a variant was detected in a 78-year-old female who was HBsAg(-)/anti-HBc(+)/anti-HBs(+)/anti-HBe(+), and with normal ALT levels, who developed HBV reactivation after fludarabine treatment. She had high HBV-DNA levels, and became positive for HBeAg, in the absence of detectable HBsAg. HBV-DNA was extracted from serum and the HBsAg encoding region of the genome was  amplified by PCR, followed by cloning and sequencing. The HBV strain appeared to  be subtype adw, but had higher nucleotide homology with ayw than adw isolates, supported further by phylogenetic tree analysis. Amino-acid sequence comparisons  over the alpha determinant region revealed the following substitutions: C124N, G130R, and N146S. There were also unique substitutions outside the alpha determinant. All these mutations appeared to have a profound effect on the antigenicity of this region, which resulted in failure to detect HBsAg by commercially available diagnostic assays. It is concluded that a surface variant  emerged in an HBsAg(-)/anti-HBs(+) patient with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia following fludarabine treatment, with an unprecedented number of amino-acid substitutions in the alpha determinant region of HBsAg, including a subtype switch."
3265	"Jaw1, also known as lymphoid-restricted membrane protein (LRMP), is an endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein. High levels of Jaw1/LRMP mRNA have been found in germinal centre B-cells and in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas of 'germinal centre' subtype. This paper documents Jaw1/LRMP expression at the protein level in human tissues by immunohistochemical and western blotting analysis using an antibody reactive with paraffin-embedded tissues. Jaw1/LRMP was highly expressed in germinal centre B-cells (in keeping with gene expression data), in 'monocytoid B-cells', and in splenic marginal zone B-cells. It was absent, or present at only low levels, in mature T-cells, although cortical thymocytes were weakly positive. Among lymphoid neoplasms, Jaw1/LRMP was found in germinal centre-derived lymphomas (follicle centre lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma,  lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin's disease) but not in T-cell neoplasms (with the exception of a single T lymphoblastic lymphoma). Classical Hodgkin's disease and  myeloma lacked Jaw1/LRMP but many cases of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (but not mantle zone lymphoma) were Jaw1/LRMP-positive. Approximately half of the marginal zone lymphomas were Jaw1/LRMP-positive. In diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, Jaw1/LRMP was found in three-quarters (24/32) of the cases classified phenotypically as being of 'germinal centre' type, but it was also expressed in almost half (13/28) of the 'non-germinal centre' cases. A similar proportion of 'non-germinal centre' cases were positive for the protein products of two other genes expressed highly in germinal centre cells (HGAL/GCET2 and PAG). The fact that all three of these proteins are expressed in a significant proportion of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas assigned to the 'non-germinal centre' category indicates that the immunophenotypic categorization of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma according to cellular origin may be more complicated than currently understood. Finally, the expression of Jaw1/LRMP in other types of lymphoma and in non-lymphoid tissues/tumours may be of interest in differential diagnosis and  research."
3267	"BACKGROUND: Recent trials suggest improved response rates for purine antagonists  compared to alkylator-based regimens in the treatment of B-CLL. However, none was able to show a survival advantage. OBJECTIVES: To determine if there is any advantage of purine antagonists compared to alkylating agents (alone or in combination) in the treatment of patients with  previously untreated B-CLL. SEARCH STRATEGY: Medical databases (Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE), conference proceedings and internet-based trial registers were searched electronically and/or by hand (1990-2003). All references were checked for further trial information. We also contacted experts in the field and pharmaceutical companies. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials comparing purine antagonists as  single agents with alkylator-based regimens in patients with previously untreated B-CLL were included. We included full-text and abstract publications as well as unpublished data. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data extraction and quality assessment were done in duplicate by two independent reviewers. Missing data were obtained from original  authors. Endpoints included overall survival, overall response rate, rate of complete remissions, progression-free survival, treatment-related morbidity and mortality. MAIN RESULTS: Five trials with 1838 randomised patients were included. There is some evidence for improved overall survival after treatment with purine antagonists compared to alkylators, but statistical significance was not reached  (HR 0.89 [95% CI 0.78-1.01], 4 trials, n=1638). However, the relative risk for achieving an overall response (RR 1.22 [95% CI 1.13-1.31], 5 trials, n=1751) and  complete remission (RR 1.94 [95% CI 1.65-2.28], 5 trials, n=1751) was significantly higher, resulting in a longer progression-free survival (HR 0.70 [95% CI 0.61-0.82], 4 trials, n=1638). Incidence of grade III/IV infections was significantly higher in patients receiving treatment with purine antagonists (RR  1.83 [95% 1.30-2.58], 4 trials, n=1620). There was no significant difference concerning the relative risk for grade III/IV neutropenia (RR 1.14 [95% CI 0.98-1.34], 4 trials, n=1620) and therapy-related mortality (RR 0.94 [95% CI 0.45-1.95]). Overall incidence of hemolytic anemia was low, but significantly increased in the purine antagonist group (RR 3.36 [95% CI 1.27-8.91], 3 trials, n=1258). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Despite significantly increased overall response and complete remission rates and longer progression-free survival with first-line treatment of B-CLL patients with single-agent purine antagonists, we were not able to detect a statistically significant improvement of overall survival compared to alkylator-based regimens. Furthermore, the use of purine antagonists  also augments the risk for grade III/IV infections and hemolytic anemia."
3268	"(c) 2006 International Society for Analytical Cytology."
3269	"In several cancer registration areas, the trends in the incidence and mortality of multiple myeloma (MM) have been rising over the last few decades. Pedigrees studies on families with multiple affected members have supported the hypothesis  of a contributing hereditary etiology of MM due to shared genetic factors. The aim of our study was twofold: 1) to assess incidence trends of MM over the period 1961-2003 using national cancer registry data and; 2) to quantify the familial risk of MM using the 2004 update of the Swedish Family-Cancer Database. For men,  the age-standardized rates were 4.33 per 100,000 in 1961-65 and 4.79 in 2001-03.  The corresponding rates for women were 2.76 and 3.43. In the elderly, MM rates have risen from 28.7 per 100,000 to 36.2 in men, and from 20.2 to 24.5 in women.  MM clustered in families with MM (standardized incidence ratio, SIR=2.45), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (SIR=1.34) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (SIR=2.45). No  association was found for Hodgkin lymphoma and other leukaemias. Significant associations were found for rectal, stomach, cervical, prostate, bladder, endocrine glands and connective tissue malignancies. Our study adds further evidence that the incidence of MM in Sweden has been constant for several decades. The apparent increase observed in the elderly is, at least in part, attributable to improved diagnostics and certification. MM aggregates in families with MM, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and, to a lesser extent, with non-Hodgkin  lymphoma. If environmental factors can be excluded, the pattern of familial risk  of MM is consistent with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance."
3270	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is the most prevalent leukaemia in Western countries and is characterized by the gradual accumulation in patients of small mature B cells. Since the vast majority of tumoral cells are quiescent, the accumulation mostly results from deficient apoptosis rather than from acute proliferation. Although the phenomenon is relevant in vivo, B-CLL cells die rapidly in vitro as a consequence of apoptosis, suggesting a lack of essential growth factors in the culture medium. Indeed, the rate of B-CLL cell death in vitro is modulated by different cytokines, some favouring the apoptotic process,  others counteracting it. Two related members of the tumour necrosis factor family, BAFF (B-cell activating factor of the TNF family) and APRIL (a proliferation-inducing ligand), already known for their crucial role in normal B-cell survival, differentiation and apoptosis, were recently shown to be expressed by B-CLL cells. These molecules are able to protect the leukaemic cells against spontaneous and drug-induced apoptosis via autocrine and/or paracrine pathways. This review will focus on the role of BAFF and APRIL in the survival of tumoral cells. It will discuss the expression of these molecules by B-CLL cells,  their regulation, transduction pathways and their effects on leukaemic cells. The design of reagents able to counteract the effects of these molecules seems to be  a new promising therapeutic approach for B-CLL and is already currently developed in the treatment of autoimmune diseases."
3272	"Although autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) has gained some popularity as a treatment option in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), limited multicentre data are available on the feasibility and efficacy of this approach. Between January 1995 and June 2005, 72 patients with CLL received ASCT  in five Finnish centres. There were 45 men and 27 women with a median age of 57 years (38-69). The median time from diagnosis to ASCT was 32 months (6-181) and the median number of prior regimens 1 (1-4). All patients received blood stem cell grafts and CD34+ selection had been performed in 44 patients (61%). The most common high-dose regimen was a total body irradiation plus cyclophosphamide (38 patients, 53%). No early treatment-related deaths were observed. With a median follow-up of 28 months from ASCT, a relapse or progression has been observed in 27 patients (37%). The projected progression-free survival is 48 months (confidence interval (CI) 30-66). The projected median overall survival is 95 months (CI 74-101) from ASCT and is not influenced by graft selection or conditioning regimen used. Autologous stem cell transplantation is a feasible treatment option for CLL. Randomized trials against alternative treatments are needed to assess the impact of ASCT on the clinical course of CLL."
3274	"The expression of the VAV proto-oncogene in 57 patients with chronic myeloproliferative disease (CMD), B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) and B-cell non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (B-NHL), and 61 with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) was analysed. VAV overexpression was observed in 19.5% of cases and 81% of VAV-positive tumours also displayed VAV phosphorylation. Overexpression was not observed in B-ALL or CMD, but 13% of B-NHL and 34.4% of B-CLL patients (P = 0.002) overexpressed VAV. The overexpression and phosphorylation of VAV was detected more frequently in 13q- chronic lymphocytic leukaemias (71.4%) versus other B-CLLs (23.4%, P = 0.001). Overexpression of VAV  protein is a frequent event in patients with B-CLL displaying loss of 13q sequences."
3275	"Non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) is an important determinant of genomic stability in mammalian cells. This DNA repair pathway is upregulated in a subset  of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells resistant to DNA damage-induced apoptosis. Using an in vitro assay for double-strand breaks (DSB)  end ligation, we studied the fidelity of DSB repair in B-CLL cells which were resistant or sensitive to in vitro DSB-induced apoptosis with concomitant patients' resistance or sensitivity to chemotherapy, respectively. The fidelity of DNA repair was determined by DNA sequencing of polymerase chain reaction products cloned in pGEM-T vector. Sequence analysis of DNA end junctions showed that the frequency of accurate ligation was higher in sensitive B-CLL cells and control cell lines, than in resistant cells where end joining was associated with extended deletions. Upregulated and error-prone NHEJ in resistant cells could be  a quite possible mechanism underlying both genomic instability and poor clinical  outcome."
3276	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a malignant haematological disorder that remains mostly incurable; more than 95% of patients have disease of B-cell origin. Advances with targeted agents such as monoclonal antibodies, antisense therapy, or both these techniques combined with traditional chemotherapy have improved the frequency of remission. The clinical course of CLL is marked by frequent relapse, and there are limited therapeutic options for patients with relapsed or refractory disease. The morphologically mature CLL clone regulates the microenvironment through modulation of the cytokine milieu that aids its growth and survival, and has a role in immune escape. Targeting of the tumour-cell microenvironment has not been investigated as a treatment option for  CLL. Immunomodulating agents are a new class of drugs that change expression of various cytokines and that costimulate immune effector cells."
3277	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is a slowly progressing malignancy of CD5(+) B cells, for which at present no curative treatment is available. In our current study, we apply a novel bridging reagent to redirect cytomegalovirus  (CMV)-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) to target B-CLL. A streptavidin-fused anti-CD20 single-chain variable fragment (scFv) is used in combination with biotinylated MHC class I molecules containing CMV pp65 peptide (HLA/CMV). We demonstrate that B-CLL cells coated with this CD20-HLA/CMV complex  can be lysed by autologous CMV-specific CTL with similar efficiency as B-CLL cells directly loaded with CMV peptide. Killing is HLA restricted and occurs at scFv CD20 concentrations of >/=100 ng ml(-1) and HLA/CMV concentrations of >/=20  ng ml(-1). Furthermore, complex-coated B-CLL cells induce both proliferation and  cytokine production (interferon gamma, tumour necrosis factor alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 beta) in CMV-specific CD8(+) T cells. Hereby, a necessary step towards possible application of CD20-HLA/CMV complexes for immunotherapy of B-cell malignancies is constituted."
3278	"Thirty-six patients with chronic B-lymphoproliferative disorders (B-LPD) underwent reduced-intensity allogeneic transplantation (RIT) from HLA-identical related donors. Diagnoses included follicular (n=17), mantle cell (n=9) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (n=2), and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (n=8). Median age at transplant was 51 years (range, 30-66) and time from diagnosis was 3.4 years (range, 0.3-9.5). At transplant, 28% were in CR, 36% were in PR and 36% were chemorefractory. Conditioning therapy included fludarabine and either cyclophosphamide (n=27) or melphalan (n=9). Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis consisted of cyclosporin (CsA)/methotrexate (n=21), CsA/mycophenolate mofetil (n=13) or CsA alone (n=2). Eight patients died owing to acute GVHD (n=3), infection in association with chronic GVHD (n=4) and intra-abdominal bleeding (n=1). Treatment-related mortality was 8% at day 100, and 17 and 20% at one and two years, respectively. The cumulative incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD was 58%, whereas limited and extensive chronic GVHD occurred in 25 and 56%, respectively. No patient has relapsed or progressed. At a median follow-up of 48  months, overall survival probability is 80% (95% CI, 67-93%). We confirm that RIT in chronic B-LPD can result in high and durable CR rates but with significant incidences of acute and chronic GVHD."
3279	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) infiltrating the skin is uncommon and can present in different forms. We report a case of CLL infiltrating the prominent parts of the face and the scalp. A 63-year-old male with a 10-year history of CLL presented with plum-coloured swelling of the skin of the ears, eyebrows, tip of the nose and the scalp. Histopathology showed dense sheets of lymphoid infiltrate of the dermis which stained positive with B-cell markers CD20 and CD5 in keeping  with the infiltrate of CLL."
3280	"BACKGROUND: Increased CD38 expression by leukemic cells has been suggested as an  adverse prognostic factor in B-CLL. Several approaches have been proposed to quantify its level of expression by flow cytometry. METHODS: We compared the use of (i) the percentage of CD38 positive cells, (ii) CD38 antibodies bound per cell (ABC), and (iii) a semi-quantitative method based  on the shape of the CD38 histogram, within a cohort of 78 B-CLL patients. RESULTS: A decreased overall survival was seen with >30% CD38 positivity among B-CLL cells, with CD38 ABC >100, and with bimodal or unimodal, strongly positive  CD38 histograms. However, patients with unimodal weakly positive CD38 histograms  also showed a significantly reduced survival as did patients with intermediate proportions (i.e. 5-30%) of CD38+ cells. Furthermore, within the group with <5% CD38 positivity among their B-CLL cells, 84% of patients showed prognostically favourable mutated IGVH gene segments and 100% had low ZAP70 gene expression. For 5-30% CD38 positivity, these proportions were 50 and 83%, while for >30% CD38 positivity, these proportion were only 28 and 56%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: We found a simple method of quantitation of CD38 expression (i.e., >5% CD38 positivity among B-CLL cells) to be sufficient to identify patients with an unfavourable prognosis. The level of CD38 expression as defined with this method correlated well with the IGVH mutation status and ZAP70 gene expression."
3281	"BACKGROUND: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is a disease with a highly variable clinical course; some patients never need treatment, while others require intensive treatment early after diagnosis. Recently, some new prognostic  factors, such as IgVH mutational status, ZAP-70 and the expression of CD38 in leukaemic cells were introduced to identify attenuated versus progressive types of CLL bearing the potential to facilitate risk-adapted treatment strategies. PATIENTS AND METHODS: To evaluate the clinical value of ZAP-70 and CD38 as predictors of disease progression we assessed the expression of these markers by  the flow cytometry method in 156 B-CLL patients. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Both ZAP-70 and CD38 expression were shown to predict the clinical course of the disease, while ZAP-70 expression appeared to be more predictive than CD38 expression and more relevant in defining the cases of B-CLL  responsive or refractory to first line chemotherapy. A simultaneous evaluation of ZAP-70 and CD38 expression allowed distinguishing the patients groups with the most favourable prognosis as well as those with the worst. Taken together we recommend assessing both ZAP-70 and CD38 protein expression for the definition of prognostic subgroups in patients with B-CLL."
3283	"A subset of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) shows familial aggregation. Studies show an increased risk for CLL and other lymphoproliferative disease among first-degree relatives of affected individuals. A genome-wide scan of 18 CLL families in 2003 detected LOD or non-parametric linkage scores > or = 1.0 on  chromosomes 1, 3, 6, 12, 13 and 17. Follow-up study with 28 families showed no evidence of linkage at 1p22.1-p21.2, 3q22.1, 3q26.2, 6q22.31-q23.2, 12q24.23, 14q32.13, 17p13.3. Chromosome 13q21.33 remains a region of interest with a P-value of 0.013 (marker D13S1291) and warrants additional molecular investigation as a susceptibility region for CLL."
3284	"Intraclonal diversification of immunoglobulin (Ig) variable (V) genes was evaluated in leukaemic cells from a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL)  case over a 2-year period at four time points. Intraclonal heterogeneity was analysed by sequencing 305 molecular clones derived from polymerase chain reaction amplification of B-CLL cell IgV heavy (H) and light (C) chain gene rearrangements. Sequences were compared with evaluating intraclonal variation and the nature of somatic mutations. Although IgV intraclonal variation was detected  at all time points, its level decreased with time and a parallel emergence of two more represented V(H)DJ(H) clones was observed. They differed by nine nucleotide  substitutions one of which only caused a conservative replacement aminoacid change. In addition, one V(L)J(L) rearrangement became more represented over time. Analyses of somatic mutations suggest antigen selection and impairment of negative selection of neoplastic cells. In addition, a genealogical tree representing a model of clonal evolution of the neoplastic cells was created. It  is of note that, during the period of study, the patient showed clinical progression of disease. We conclude that antigen stimulation and somatic hypermutation may participate in disease progression through the selection and expansion of neoplastic subclone(s)."
3285	"We report on a 48-year-old man with concomitantly diagnosed kappa expressing chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and lambda light chain disease with highly complex chromosomal aberrations. The clinical course of the disease was very aggressive with survival of only 1 month. We demonstrate the distinct clonal origin by cytogenetic data and immunoglobulin rearrangement studies. To our knowledge this is the first report of a light chain disease associated with CLL."
3286	"Preclinical and clinical studies indicate a role for AS ODNs (antisense oligonucleotides) as therapeutics for malignant diseases. The principle of antisense technology is the sequence-specific binding of an AS ODN to the target  mRNA, resulting in a translational arrest. The specificity of hybridization makes antisense strategy attractive to selectively modulate the expression of genes involved in the pathogenesis of malignant diseases. One antisense drug has been approved for local therapy of CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis, and a number of AS ODNs are currently being tested in clinical trials, including AS ODN targeting Bcl-2, XIAP (X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein) and TGF-beta-2 (transforming growth factor beta-2). AS ODNs are well tolerated and may have therapeutic activity. In particular, an AS ODN to Bcl-2 has been tested in phase  III clinical trials in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, multiple myeloma and malignant melanoma. In this review, therapeutic concepts, clinical studies and new promising molecular targets to treat malignancies with AS ODNs are summarized."
3288	"OBJECTIVE: The mutational status of the immunoglobulin (Ig) V(H) gene in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) identifies two subgroups of patients with significantly different outcomes. We investigated the association of ZAP-70 expression with IgVH mutational status in B-CLL by quantifying ZAP-70 mRNA, to evaluate its use as a surrogate marker for mutational status. The aim of this study was to develop a quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) assay for the detection of ZAP-70 expression in a group of patients whose mutational status and cytogenetics had been determined previously. METHODS: RQ-PCR was used to analyse ZAP-70 expression from 42 B-CLL patients. B cells were purified using CD19 magnetic bead system and total RNA was isolated. RQ-PCR was performed using Taqman PCR. RESULTS: Twenty-five patients (60%) had mutated and 17 (40%) had unmutated IgVH genes; 94% (16/17) of patients with unmutated IgVH gene were ZAP-70 positive as assessed by RQ-PCR and 92% (23/25) of patients with mutated IgVH gene were ZAP-70 negative. In three patients, ZAP-70 expression and IgVH mutational status were discordant. CONCLUSION: This paper describes an RQ-PCR assay for the detection of ZAP-70 expression and confirms that IgV(H) unmutated CLL cells have a high expression of ZAP-70 in comparison with IgVH mutated CLL. This robust method acts as a surrogate marker for IgVH mutational status albeit with <100% concordance. However, it does provide better concordance with mutational status than that reported using flow cytometry."
3289	"This study correlates bone marrow changes after Rituximab (RTX) treatment with the clinical characteristics and outcome of 26 patients with small B-cell lymphomas. The percentage, phenotypic profile and clonality pattern of bone marrow lymphoid infiltrate were analysed before and after RTX treatment. Clinical, histological and molecular responses to RTX were correlated to the clinical outcome of the patients. Sixteen out of twenty-six patients obtained a complete clinical remission (CR). A favourable histology--follicular lymphoma (FL), hairy cell leukaemia (HCL) and marginal zone lymphoma (MZL)--was associated with a higher frequency of clinical CR and histological remission (HR), in comparison with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL). Two patterns of bone marrow HR were observed: 1) complete lymphoid cell disappearance (9 patients); or 2) nodular/interstitial T-cell infiltration (10 patients). Three histological persistence (HP) patterns were observed: 1) persistence of CD20+ small lymphoid cells in 1 patient with MCL; 2) loss of CD20 antigen expression in 4 patients with CLL; or 3) persistence only of clusters of monotypic plasma cells in 2 patients with LPL. CR and HR were strongly correlated. The percentage of lymphomatous infiltrate after RTX was higher in patients who subsequently died of the disease. Molecular response showed no correlations with the further clinical  course in 12 patients achieving a complete clinical remission. In conclusion, bone marrow morphological and immunohistochemical analysis with a restricted panel of antibodies is useful to avoid 42% false positive and 85% false negative  interpretations. Persistence of monoclonality after RTX might have a role in evaluating the molecular pattern of CD20-negative clones that can emerge after RTX as a tumoral escape to therapy."
3290	"We developed and tested a potent hexameric Fas agonist, termed MegaFasL, for its  cytotoxic effects on a panel of human haematopoietic malignant cells and healthy  human haematopoietic progenitor cells (CD34+CD38low). Results demonstrated that MegaFasL induced apoptosis in cell lines and primary cells representing multiple  myeloma (MM), acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL)  and Burkitt's lymphoma. Cells from a chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) line and from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) were resistant. Furthermore, CD34+CD38low progenitor cells were also resistant to MegaFasL. The data indicate that MegaFasL could be a highly efficient therapeutic agent ex vivo or potentially in vivo."
3291	"Microtubule active drugs are used in the treatment of malignancies and their mechanism of action in cycling cells is to produce mitotic arrest followed by apoptosis. In this study, we investigate in detail the specificity and mechanism  by which a microtubule de-polymerising agent, nocodazole, induces apoptosis in non-cyclingm, i.e. G(0)/G(1), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) B-cells. The majority of cases of CLL are sensitive (IC(50)<or=16 microM) but normal peripheral blood B-cells, which are also in G(0)/G(1), are resistant to the maximum in vitro concentration of this agent. Taxol, a microtubule stabilising drug does not kill CLL cells suggesting a specific effect of nocodazole. The mechanism of apoptosis involves mitochondrial membrane depolarisation, activation of caspases and cleavage of PARP. Nocodazole causes two patterns of change to Bcl-2 expression. In one there is increase in expression of the serine-70 phosphorylated form of Bcl-2 and in the other total Bcl-2 expression is reduced.  Collectively the data shows that sensitivity to nocodazole-induced apoptosis is a feature of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and suggests that newer microtubule active agents be systematically investigated for their effectiveness in this condition."
3295	"A panel of fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) probes was used on 894 cases to target chromosome 11q, 13q, 17p deletions (del), trisomy 12 (+12) in all and 6q deletion in 59. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) immunophenotype (CD5 and CD19 with CD23) was found in 509 cases (average age 67.7 years, 319 males and 190 females). Among the 509 CLL cases 349 (68.6%) had FISH (4-probe panel) abnormalities: 160 del 13q [45.8% (122-del 13q, 18-biallelic del 13q, 20-monoallelic/biallelic del 13q)], 71 tri 12 (20.3%), 17 del ATM (5%), 12 del p53 (3.4%) and 89 > or = 2 FISH abnormalities (25.5%). Of 151/509 cases karyotyped, 108 were normal and 43 (43/151 = 28.5%) abnormal. Del 6q was found in 1/59 (1.6%) FISH cases and in 6/151 (4%) karyotypes. In 14 CD23 negative cases IGH/BCL1 FISH detected t(11;14) and was confirmed to be mantle cell lymphoma. Multiple probes/panels that included IGH probe were ordered for 57 CLL cases, 11  had an IGH rearrangement with an unidentified partner. This study favours the inclusion of del 6q and IGH probes in the CLL panel. The FISH panel could also serve to monitor 13q deletion for secondary changes with adverse prognosis. Understanding prognosis in specific types of 13q deletion would enhance outcome prediction."
3296	"All types of leukaemia can disseminate to the skin, producing cutaneous deposits  known as leukaemia cutis (LC). We undertook a retrospective study to review the clinical presentations, treatment and outcome of eight patients with LC managed in our department over a period of 12 years. The clinical phenotype varied, with  erythematous papules and nodules occurring with greatest frequency. Infiltrated haemorrhagic plaques and perifollicular acneiform papules were also seen. Although patients were treated aggressively for their underlying leukaemia, and received therapy directed towards LC, they tended to be refractory to treatment and the diagnosis was generally associated with a poor prognosis. The exception was a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, who survived 3 years after developing LC."
3297	"OBJECTIVES: To evaluate early (<100 d) treatment-related mortality (TRM) in autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) recipients. PATIENTS: Altogether 1482 adult patients received ASCT in six Finnish centres 1990-2003. The most common diagnoses were non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) (n = 542), multiple myeloma (MM) (n = 528), breast cancer (BC) (n = 132), Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 86) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (n = 63). RESULTS: Forty-two patients (2.8%) died from treatment-related reasons <100 d from ASCT. The median time to death was 38 d from ASCT (0-99). The risk of TRM varied according to the diagnoses. The highest risk was observed in patients with AL amyloidosis (24%) followed by NHL (4.4%) and MM (1.9%). No early TRM was observed in patients transplanted for BC or CLL. Infections were the cause of death in 16 patients (fungal 7, bacterial 6, viral 3). Organ toxicity was responsible for early death in 26 patients (heart 9, lungs 7, other 10). CONCLUSIONS: This nation-wide survey indicated a low early TRM in ASCT recipients in general, but higher risks in patients with AL amyloidosis or NHL. In addition  to patient selection, also optimization of transplant procedure may be needed in  these patient groups to reduce early TRM."
3298	"Although the philosophy of management of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) has been altered with the advent of fludarabine-based therapies,  impact on long-term survival is unclear and a significant proportion of patients  will develop resistance to fludarabine. Similar to other haematological malignancies, a potential for 'cure' is likely to be achieved only if 'high-quality' complete remissions (CRs) are achieved. Treatment options for patients who develop resistance to fludarabine continue to be limited, with only  a proportion obtaining a response (usually not CRs) with salvage therapies. This  review summarises novel therapies that are being evaluated in patients with CLL,  specifically those targeting the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family of proteins and receptors (e.g., CD40, CD80, HLA-DR) involved in mediating survival signals from  the microenvironment."
3299	"AIMS: Whereas focal accumulations of reactive lymphocytes around mast cell (MC) infiltrates are often seen in indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM) involving the  bone marrow, an association of systemic mastocytosis (SM) with malignant lymphoma/lymphatic leukaemia is very rare. This report contributes to the differential diagnosis of ISM by demonstrating that such lymphocytic aggregates may be neoplastic. METHODS: Biopsy specimens (bone marrow and gastrointestinal mucosa) of a 69 year  old woman with mild blood lymphocytosis and a history of urticaria pigmentosa-like skin lesions that had disappeared a few years earlier, were investigated immunohistochemically using antibodies against CD3, CD5, CD20, CD23, CD25, CD34, CD117, chymase, and tryptase. Rearrangements of the IgH and TCRy genes were studied by seminested PCR. Mutation analysis of c-kit was performed by melting point analysis of nested PCR using amplified DNA from pooled microdissected single cells (MC and B cells) of both sites. RESULTS: The histomorphological features of the bone marrow corresponded to that  of ISM with multifocal accumulations of MC surrounded by clusters of lymphocytes  of mature appearance. However, these lymphocytes revealed an aberrant immunophenotype with coexpression of CD5, CD20, and CD23, thus enabling the final diagnosis of SM with an associated clonal haematological non-MC lineage disease,  in particular SM with associated B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (SM-CLL). Monoclonality for both ISM and B-CLL could be confirmed by demonstrating the typical activating c-kit point mutation D816V in bone marrow MC, and a monoclonal IgH rearrangement in bone marrow B cells. CONCLUSIONS: Usually, focal accumulations of lymphocytes around MC infiltrates in the bone marrow of patients with SM are reactive in nature (lymphocytosis). However, a low grade malignant lymphoma should also be included in the differential diagnosis. We describe here the first case, to our knowledge, with synchronous diagnosis of SM and associated B-CLL. This diagnosis could only be established by application of appropriate immunohistochemical and molecular techniques, as the bone marrow histology on first investigation resembled that of typical ISM."
3300	"INTRODUCTION: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) represents a low-grade B-cell lymphoproliferative disease that is the most common leukaemia in adults. The neoplastic cell is an autoreactive CD5 CD23 B lymphocyte. B-CLL may involve the skin, typically in the context of known disease. We present a case of subclinical B-CLL presenting initially in the skin. CASE REPORT: A 73-year-old male developed a lesion on his right cheek in April 2003 compatible with basal cell carcinoma. The re-excision specimen contained a well-differentiated atypical lymphocytic infiltrate consistent with B-CLL along with residual carcinoma. Subsequent laboratory studies revealed peripheral blood  lymphocytosis with smudge cells. A diagnosis was made of Rai stage 0 CLL. Chromosomal studies on peripheral blood showed a deletion at 13q14.3. Excision of a second primary skin carcinoma revealed a squamous cell carcinoma in association with B-CLL that was identical to his previously diagnosed skin involvement. CONCLUSION: This case identifies a cutaneous presentation of subclinical B-CLL. There are two prior reports describing B-CLL presenting initially in the skin. In one case, the infiltrates were incidental on a re-excision specimen. The second report suggests 16% of B-CLL patients have cutaneous manifestations as the first  sign of disease."
3301	"Constitutively activated signaling pathways contribute to the apoptosis-defect of B-CLL cells. Protein kinase C-delta is a permanently activated kinase and a putative downstream target of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase in B-CLL. Blockade of protein kinase C-delta (PKC-delta) by the highly specific inhibitor rottlerin induces apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells. By co-culturing bone marrow stromal and CLL cells, we determined that the proapoptotic effect of  rottlerin is not abolished in the presence of survival factors, indicating that a targeted therapy against PKC-delta might be a powerful approach for the treatment of CLL patients. The downstream events following rottlerin treatment engage mitochondrial and non-mitochondrial pathways and ultimately activate caspases that execute the apoptotic cell death. Herein we report that the inhibition of PKC-delta decreases the expression of the important antiapoptotic proteins Mcl-1  and XIAP accompanied by a loss of the mitochondrial membrane potential Deltapsi.  In addition, we discovered that ZAP-70-expressing cells are significantly more susceptible to rottlerin-induced cell death than ZAP-70 negative cells. We finally observed that rottlerin can augment cell toxicity induced by standard chemotherapeutic drugs. Conclusively, PKC-delta is a promising new target in the  combat against CLL."
3302	"STUDY DESIGN: A case report. OBJECTIVE: To raise awareness among spinal cord clinicians of the possible carcinogenic effect of phenoxybenzamine and of the rare occurrence of small cell  carcinoma in the neuropathic bladder. SETTING: Regional Spinal Injuries Centre and District General Hospital, Southport, Merseyside, United Kingdom. CASE REPORT: A 28-year-old man sustained a fracture dislocation of L-1 with consequent paraplegia (ASIA impairment scale A). Phenoxybenzamine treatment enabled his indwelling catheter to be discarded in favour of a penile sheath, but it caused unacceptable dizziness and was stopped after 7 years. After 20 years, he developed chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, which was treated with chlorambucil and fludarabine. After 2 years, investigation of bilateral hydronephrosis revealed a primary small cell carcinoma of the bladder with coexistent squamous dysplasia. Uraemia supervened and, declining active treatment, the patient died 3 weeks after diagnosis. CONCLUSION: Phenoxybenzamine, a known carcinogen in rodents, is likely also to be carcinogenic in humans, and patients with spinal cord injury who have received the drug for any significant period of time, need close follow-up to allow early  detection of cancer. Phenoxybenzamine should not be prescribed on a long-term basis, and should instead be replaced with a selective alpha-blocker."
3303	"Lymphoma-derived immunoglobulin idiotype (Id) is a tumour-specific antigen used for antitumour vaccination in follicular lymphoma (FL). However, FL Ids are subject to hypermutation and subclones may escape antitumour cytotoxic T-cell response. To investigate the intraclonal epitope diversity, we sequenced the FL heavy chain gene (consensus Id gene) and subclones of 24 patients. The derived polypeptide sequences were analysed by bioinformatics for human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-A0201-restricted epitope prediction. Epitopes were classified according to  BIMAS and SYFPEITHI scores. Surprisingly in these highly mutated polypeptides, the epitopes concentrated in short hotspots in the conserved framework regions (FRs), both in HLA-A0201(+) and HLA-A0201(-) patients. Similar hotspots have been observed by others in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia Ids which in contrast to FL have low mutation frequency. FR3 amino acids 78-88 displayed the best-score epitopes in Ids containing a VH3-family segment, the most represented in FL Ids.  Such VH3-FR3(78-88) epitopes were previously demonstrated as immunogenic. Modifications of the epitope pattern in subclones of HLA-A0201(+) patients were generally absent from high-score peptides, including VH3-FR3(78-88) epitopes (83% unmodified). Therefore, no tendency for loss of HLA-A0201-restricted epitopes was evidenced and, given their limited intraclonal diversity, VH3-FR3(78-88) epitopes may provide a useful target for the induction of cytotoxic response in Id-vaccinated FL patients."
3304	"A large number of human malignancies are associated with decreased numbers of circulating T cells. B-CLL, in this regard, represents an anomaly since there is  not only high numbers of circulating B cells, characteristic of the malignancy, but also a massive expansion of both CD4 and CD8 T cells. These T cells for the most part may probably not represent a leukaemia-specific TCR-dependent expansion. On the contrary, these T cells, especially the CD4 subset, might support a "microenvironment" sustaining the growth of the leukaemic B cell clone. Conversely, the leukaemic B cells may produce membrane-bound as well as soluble factors that stimulate the proliferation of these T cells in an antigen independent manner. In addition to these T cells lacking anti-leukaemic reactivity, there exist spontaneously occurring leukaemia-specific T cells recognizing several leukaemia-associated antigens, e.g. the tumour derived idiotype, survivin and telomerase. Both CD4 and CD8 leukaemia-specific T cells have been identified using proliferation and gamma-IFN assays. These reactive T cells can lyse autologous tumour cells in an MHC class I and II restricted manner. Spontaneously occurring leukaemia-specific T cells are more frequently noted at an indolent stage rather than in progressive disease. Preliminary results from vaccination trials using whole tumour cell preparations as vaccine have demonstrated that vaccination may induce a leukaemia-specific T cell response, which might be associated with clinical benefits. Extended clinical trials are required to establish the therapeutic effects of vaccination in B-CLL. Studies in our laboratory as well as those of others indicate that whole tumour cell antigen in the form of apoptotic bodies or RNA loaded on to dendritic cells  may be a suitable vaccine candidate. Patients with low stage disease may maximally benefit from this form of therapy."
3305	"A patient with cold-type autoimmune haemolytic anaemia for 8 years developed progressive B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Despite the risk of fludarabine induced exacerbation of haemolysis, he was given aggressive anti-CLL  therapy with six courses of FCR (fludarabine 25 mg/m2 D1-3, cyclophosphamide 250  mg/m2 D2-4 and rituximab 375 mg/m2 D1) every 4 weeks. This resulted in a marked acute increase in haemolysis shortly after completing each course of fludarabine. However, haemolysis had settled to its baseline level by the time of subsequent courses of FCR. FCR resulted in complete clinical remission of CLL but residual haemolysis persisted. The patient was then given four weekly infusions of single  agent rituximab, resulting in ongoing remission of haemolysis. In this patient, rituximab appears to have controlled fludarabine induced exacerbation of autoimmune haemolysis. In addition, subsequent single agent rituximab therapy resulted in prolonged remission of cold-type autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. It remains to be seen if the addition of rituximab will allow other patients with a  positive direct Coomb's test and/or autoimmune haemolysis to receive fludarabine  containing chemotherapy without undue risk of life-threatening haemolytic anaemia."
3306	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is a lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by clonal expansion of B lymphocytes. The present study aimed to determine whether there is an association between the polymorphic features located within the promoter/enhancer region of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFA) gene and susceptibility to B-CLL. TNFA (-308 G/A) promoter single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was determined by polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP) using commercial oligonucleotides. No significant association was found between the distribution of TNFA alleles and B-CLL in Polish patients with B-CLL. Our single centre results were compared with other literature data and combined in a cumulative analysis employing the Mantel-Haenszel method. Among 183 B-CLL patients, 47 (26%) were carrying TNFA*2 allele and this allele was present in 98 out of 348 controls (28%). Also, the results of the Mantel-Haenszel test did not show a significant correlation [Mantel-Haenszel estimate of approximate relative risk (RMH) = 0.86, P = 0.294].  These results suggest that TNFA (-308) alleles are not involved in the predisposition to the development of B-CLL."
3307	"PURPOSE: Bendamustine hydrochloride, an anti-neoplastic agent with unique mechanism of action, is known to cause impressive remissions in relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Optimal bendamustine dosing for CLL patients had not been finally established and a phase I/II study was conducted to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of bendamustine. METHODS: The open-label, single-centre phase I/II study was conducted from March  2001 to September 2002 in Sofia, Bulgaria. The 15 study patients were extendedly  pre-treated, but fludarabine-naive (3 female, 12 male, 47-72 years of age, 61 years on average). Bendamustine was given at a starting dose of 100 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2 every 3 weeks based on the previous results in lymphoma. RESULTS: Bendamustine was well tolerated in spite of heavy pre-treatment of the study participants. Toxicity corresponded to the known safety profile of bendamustine, with the exception of bilirubin elevation. The level of 110 mg/m2 was established as MTD. A bendamustine dose of 100 mg/m2 is the recommended dose  for further clinical investigations. A 4-week interval is recommended to allow for sufficient recovery. Efficacy results confirmed powerful anti-neoplastic activity of bendamustine even in extendedly pre-treated CLL patients. Based on the remission criteria, nine patients were defined as responders (four CRs, two PR, three NC) and two patients as nonresponders to therapy. Four patients were not evaluable for response, because they had received less than three courses bendamustine. After a follow-up period of 15 months, the four patients with CR were still in remission. One patient with PR had relapsed, the other had ongoing  response. CONCLUSIONS: Bendamustine is a very active and well-tolerated drug in patients with pre-treated and refractory CLL. Fludarabine-naivity of patients appears to markedly improve their bendamustine tolerability. First-line use of bendamustine  is a safe option for CLL-patients requiring treatment, because bendamustine-owing to its unique pharmacodynamics-(1) is highly effective, (2) reasonably safe, and  (3) does hardly produce cross-resistance against other anti-neoplastic drugs effective in this indication."
3309	"A patient with an 18-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia developed zygomycosis of the orbit, sinuses and nasal bones together with pulmonary fungal  nodes due to Absidia corymbifera while on high dose steroids and four months after successful treatment of pulmonary aspergilloma with liposomal amphotericin  B followed by oral voriconazole. He was treated successfully with extensive surgical debridement, intravenous liposomal amphotericin B and intravenous itraconazole."
3311	"There is an increasing use of monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of haematological malignancies. Alemtuzumab (Campath-1H; Ilex Pharmaceuticals, San Antonio, TX, USA) is a monoclonal antibody reactive with the CD52 antigen used as first and second line therapy for two types of lymphoproliferative disorders: chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), and T-cell lymphomas [both peripheral (PTCL) and cutaneous (CTCL)]. With alemtuzumab therapy, viral, bacterial and fungal infectious complications are frequent, and may be life threatening. An understanding of the patients at highest risk and duration of risk are important  in developing recommendations for empirical management, antimicrobial prophylaxis and targeted surveillance. This review discusses the infection risks associated with these lymphoproliferative disorders and their treatment, and provide detailed recommendations for screening and prophylaxis."
3312	"Rituximab (MabThera, Rituxan) is an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that induces lysis and apoptosis of normal and malignant human B cells, and sensitises malignant B cells to the cytotoxic effect of chemotherapy. In phase III trials in patients with indolent or aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), intravenous rituximab in combination with chemotherapy was more effective as first- or second-line therapy than chemotherapy alone in providing tumour remission and patient survival. Likewise, in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), rituximab in combination with chemotherapy appeared more effective than chemotherapy alone as either first- or second-line treatment. In addition, rituximab maintenance therapy was shown to significantly prolong tumour remission and patient survival in patients with indolent B-cell NHL or CLL. The combination of rituximab with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone (CHOP) was cost effective as first-line therapy for advanced-stage diffuse large B-cell NHL compared with CHOP alone. Rituximab, either alone or in  combination with chemotherapy, was generally well tolerated in patients with NHL  or CLL. Overall, rituximab in combination with chemotherapy, is a valuable option for first- and second-line therapy in patients with advanced-stage indolent or aggressive B-cell NHL, and possibly those with B-cell CLL, and is included in current treatment guidelines for these indications. The drug is also potentially  useful as maintenance therapy in patients with indolent B-cell NHL or CLL."
3313	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The mutational status of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region genes (IGVH) is a strong indicator of prognosis in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Since the determination of the IGVH mutation status is very labor-intensive, alternative prognostically relevant markers would facilitate CLL diagnostics. DESIGN AND METHODS: Ten genes were selected from previously published gene expression profiling studies based on their differential expression in IGVH mutated versus unmutated cases of CLL, and tested with real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) in unpurified samples from 130 CLL patients. To ascertain potential contaminating effects by normal hematopoietic cells, the expression levels of the selected genes were determined in normal monocytes, B cells, T cells, NK cells and granulocytes. RESULTS: The selected genes, i.e., ZAP70, LPL, SPG20, ADAM29, NRIP1, AKAP12, DMD, SEPT10, TPM2 and CLECSF2, showed prognostic significance. In multivariate logistic regression analysis expression levels of LPL, ZAP70, ADAM29 and SEPT10 were the most predictive for IGVH mutational status. In univariate analysis the expression of LPL was the best predictor. For survival, expression of LPL was the strongest prognostic factor. In combination with the three cytogenetic markers associated with a poor prognosis, i.e., deletions 17p13, 11q22 and trisomy 12, expression of LPL and IGVH mutational status performed equally well with regard to their predictive value for survival, both being more predictive than ZAP70. INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that LPL expression is a  predictor for survival in CLL, and for this purpose is as good as IGVH mutational status and more reliable than ZAP70 expression when tested in unpurified CLL samples."
3314	"We report the case of a 76-year-old patient with a past medical history of low-grade chronic lymphocytic leukaemia who presented with severe chronic bladder symptoms attributed to interstitial cystitis. She underwent cystectomy and ileal  conduit formation after the failure of all conventional treatment. Bladder histopathology revealed primary splenic marginal zone lymphoma. Literature review shows the rarity of such non-hematopoietic visceral metastases. This may represent the first reported splenic marginal zone lymphoma with bladder involvement and highlights the clinical and histological similarities with interstitial cystitis."
3315	"Autoimmune haemolytic anaemia following fludarabine is an uncommon complication and previously treated patients are at higher risk. We describe a case of 57-year old lady with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia; she received intermittent courses of alkylating agents and purine analogue, fludarabine. Reintroduction of fludarabine for her relapsing disease induced autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. Numbers of cases have been reported regarding autoimmune haemolytic anaemia following fludarabine  administration, but none have been published from our part of the world. Normally T-cell suppresses autoreactive lymphocytes that can produce autoantibodies. Suppression of T-cells by fludarabine, in addition to the underlying disease process appears to be a contributory factor for autoimmune haemolytic anaemia."
3316	"During normal B-lymphocyte development once cells pass the pro-B stage the transcription factor LEF-1, a key component of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, is down regulated. However studies have shown that B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) lymphocytes, which have a mature B-cell phenotype, still express  abundant LEF-1. This study demonstrates that although LEF-1 mRNA is universally,  highly expressed in B-CLL, expression of this gene is much lower or absent in the majority of low-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). This suggests that there exist key differences in the activity of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway between low-grade B-cell malignancies."
3319	"CXCR4 is the receptor of the chemokine CXCL12, which is involved in progression and metastasis of several types of cancer cells, HIV infection and rheumatoid arthritis. The authors developed selective CXCR4 antagonists, T22 and T140, initially as anti-HIV agents, which inhibit T cell line-tropic (X4-) HIV-1 infection through their specific binding to CXCR4. Recently, T140 analogues have  also been shown to inhibit CXCL12-induced migration of breast cancer cells, leukaemia T cells, pancreatic cancer cells, small cell lung cancer cells, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia B cells, pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukaemia cells and so on in vitro. Biostable T140 analogues significantly suppressed pulmonary metastasis of breast cancer cells and melanoma cells in mice. Furthermore, these  compounds significantly suppressed the delayed-type hypersensitivity response induced by sheep red blood cells and collagen-induced arthritis, which represent  in vivo mouse models of arthritis. Thus, T140 analogues proved to be attractive lead compounds for chemotherapy of these problematic diseases. This article reviews recent research on T140 analogues, referring to several other CXCR4 antagonists."
3320	"It has become clear that the heterogeneity of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is not a continuous spectrum, but is bipolar. Originally distinguished by the mutational status of the immunoglobulin variable region genes, the two poles are  perhaps better identified by the expression of ZAP-70, a signalling molecule normally utilised by T cells rather than B cells, but anomalously expressed in the more aggressive subtype of CLL. Assaying ZAP-70 expression has become progressively simplified so that a directly stained flow cytometric test is currently being evaluated, and a version of this should shortly be available to routine laboratories. In addition, the understanding of the nature of CLL has been advanced rapidly and this should lead to new, better targeted therapies, which in contrast to the current armoury, will work better for the more malignant variants of CLL than for the more benign. In particular, ZAP-70 is especially attractive because its aberrant expression in tumour cells from the more aggressive forms of CLL requires the chaperoning action of activated heat-shock protein 90, which may be specifically inhibited."
3321	"BACKGROUND: There are limited data on risks of haematopoietic malignancies associated with protracted low-to-moderate dose radiation. AIMS: To contribute the first incidence risk estimates for haematopoietic malignancies in relation to work history, procedures, practices, and protective measures in a large population of mostly female medical radiation workers. METHODS: The investigators followed up 71,894 (77.9% female) US radiologic technologists, first certified during 1926-80, from completion of a baseline questionnaire (1983-89) to return of a second questionnaire (1994-98), diagnosis  of a first cancer, death, or 31 August 1998 (731,306 person-years), whichever occurred first. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to compute risks. RESULTS: Relative risks (RR) for leukaemias other than chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (non-CLL, 41 cases) were increased among technologists working five or  more years before 1950 (RR = 6.6, 95% CI 1.0 to 41.9, based on seven cases) or holding patients 50 or more times for x ray examination (RR = 2.6, 95% CI 1.3 to  5.4). Risks of non-CLL leukaemias were not significantly related to the number of years subjects worked in more recent periods, the year or age first worked, the total years worked, specific procedures or equipment used, or personal radiotherapy. Working as a radiologic technologist was not significantly linked with risk of multiple myeloma (28 cases), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (118 cases), Hodgkin's lymphoma (31 cases), or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (23 cases). CONCLUSION: Similar to results for single acute dose and fractionated high dose radiation exposures, there was increased risk for non-CLL leukaemias decades after initial protracted radiation exposure that likely cumulated to low-to-moderate doses."
3322	"Cytogenetic analysis is now a routine part of the diagnosis and management of a significant number of lymphoid malignancies. Whilst conventional cytogenetics remains the most comprehensive method for assessing chromosome abnormalities, the technical difficulties associated with conventional cytogenetics in most lymphomas has resulted in increased use of fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) to identify specific abnormalities that are useful in either the diagnosis or management of these disorders. The finding of one of the Burkitt's translocations is of major importance in the diagnosis of Burkitt's and Burkitt's-like lymphomas, whereas the t(14;18), although seen in most follicular  lymphomas (FL), is not usually required to make a diagnosis. Thus, whilst cytogenetics may be of interest in FL, it is not an essential part of the diagnostic work-up. Conventional cytogenetics may be useful for identifying markers of resistance to Helicobacter pylori therapy in MALT lymphomas. In disorders such as Hodgkin lymphoma, hairy cell leukaemia and lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma, although many cytogenetic abnormalities have been observed, no consistent or specific abnormalities have been identified and so, at this point in our knowledge of the genetics of these disorders, cytogenetics cannot be considered a useful test for either diagnosis or prognosis. In contrast, the diagnosis of mantle cell lymphoma is now dependent upon the identification of the 11;14 translocation that results in cyclin D1 up-regulation. It is widely acknowledged that FISH is the most consistently useful test to identify the juxtaposition of the CCND1 and IGH genes in mantle cell lymphoma and is regarded  as the 'gold standard'. FISH also has a role in identifying genetic abnormalities of prognostic significance in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Given the wealth of  genetic and cytogenetic abnormalities that are continuing to be found in chronic  lymphoid malignancies, it will be some time before the optimal use of both conventional cytogenetics and FISH is established in the diagnosis and management of lymphomas."
3325	"We have studied the surface expression of the Toll-like receptor family member CD 180 on cells from 78 patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). B-CLL cells had variable levels of CD 180 expression, but this was always less than that expressed by normal blood B cells and was stable for 24 months. Significantly higher levels of CD 180 were expressed by B-CLL cells with mutated  IGVH genes compared with those using unmutated IGVH genes. This was in contrast to the higher levels of expression of surface immunoglobulin M by B-CLL cells using unmutated, rather than mutated IGVH genes. CD 180 was functional on B-CLL cells from some of the patients, as shown by the increased expression of CD 86 following incubation in vitro with anti-CD 180. The differential expression of CD 180 amongst B-CLL patients is one more marker that may define more precisely the  different biological properties of this heterogeneous disease."
3326	"We have developed a microarray (DotScan) that enables rapid immunophenotyping and classification of leukaemias and lymphomas by measuring the capture of cells by immobilized dots of 82 CD antibodies [Belov, L., de la Vega, O., dos Remedios, C.G., Mulligan, S.P., 2001. Immunophenotyping of leukemia using a cluster of differentiation antibody microarray. Cancer Res. 61, 4483; Belov, L., Huang, P.,  Barber, N., Mulligan, S.P., Christopherson, R.I., 2003. Identification of repertoires of surface antigens on leukemias using an antibody microarray. Proteomics 3, 2147]. The DotScan technology has been used to investigate the properties of 498 new antibodies submitted to the HLDA8 Workshop. These antibodies have been applied as 10 nl dots to a film of nitrocellulose on a microscope slide to make an HLDA8 microarray. After blocking the remaining nitrocellulose surface, individual arrays were incubated with each of 7 cell types from a human leukaemia cell panel consisting of three cell lines, CCRF-CEM  (a T-cell acute lymphocytic leukaemia), MEC-1 (derived from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia) and HL-60 (a promyelocytic leukaemia), and four leukaemias from patients: a T-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia, a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, and two acute myeloid leukaemias. Leukaemia cells were captured by those immobilized antibodies for which they expressed the corresponding surface molecule. Unbound cells were gently washed off, bound cells were fixed to the arrays and dot patterns were recorded using a DotScan array reader and quantified using DotScan data analysis software. The data obtained show the unique expression profiles of the 7 cell types in the leukaemia cell panel obtained with the DotScan microarray, and the differential capture patterns for these 7 cell types screened against the 498 antibodies in the HLDA8 microarray constructed for this study."
3327	"p53 is the most frequently inactivated gene in human cancers, reflecting its pivotal role in maintaining genomic integrity. The present study was conducted to explore the possibility that tumour cells with no intrinsic defects of the p53 pathway might nevertheless acquire p53 dysfunction through extrinsic suppression  of the pathway by microenvironmental factors. Neoplastic cells from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) were cultured in the presence or absence of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and exposed to ionizing radiation (IR) to induce p53 accumulation. bFGF is greatly increased in the plasma of CLL patients  and can suppress p53 activation in some experimental models. IR induced a marked  increase in p53 levels in 28 samples from 24 patients. bFGF inhibited IR-induced  p53 accumulation to some extent in most of these samples and by more than 50% in  seven samples from seven patients. Suppression of p53 activation by bFGF was frequently but not always accompanied by upregulation of the p53-inhibitory protein MDM2 and/or phosphorylation of MDM2 at serine 166, and was associated with impaired transcriptional activation of the p53 target gene p21. These observations provide the first demonstration in human cancer cells that the p53 pathway can be suppressed by factors in the tumour-cell microenvironment."
3328	"Richter syndrome (RS) is a transformation to high-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). RS may develop in lymph nodes  or rarely extranodally. Skin localization of RS has been described in only a few  cases. We present a 77-year-old woman who developed isolated diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL) in the skin of the nose without any other symptoms of RS. The LBCL in the skin was clonally distinct from the original bone marrow CLL cells. Moreover, LBCL cells were positive for LMP-1 segment of Epstein-Barr virus and overexpressed p53 protein. The patient was successfully treated with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone) and adjuvant local radiotherapy."
3329	"BACKGROUND: The use of hair dyes has been inconsistently associated with an increased risk of lymphomas. We explore hair dye use and lymphoma risk in a case-control study in Spain. METHODS: We studied 574 incident lymphoma cases and 616 hospital controls in a multicentric study in Spain. Information on hair dye use was obtained through a personal interview together with information on other known or putative risk factors for lymphoma. Unconditional logistic regression analysis was used to estimate odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). All ORs were adjusted for pathology center, sex, age, and house ownership. RESULTS: Ever use of hair dyes was associated with a non-significant 20% increased risk of lymphoma (OR = 1.2, 95% CI 0.9-1.7) with a slightly higher risk observed for those using permanent hair dyes (OR = 1.3, 95% CI 0.9-1.9). No association was observed with duration of use or lifetime doses of hair dyes. Among all lymphomas categories, only chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) was significantly associated with the use of hair dyes (OR = 2.3, 95% CI 1.1-4.7). The risk of CLL increased with lifetime doses received. CONCLUSIONS: Ever use of hair dye products is unlikely to substantially modify the risk of lymphoma. The observed association with CLL needs to be replicated."
3332	"Two high-molecular water-soluble preparations with high anticomplementary, antioxidant, antilipoperoxidant and antiinflammatory activities were isolated from the roots of Symphytum asperum and S. caucasicum. Their main chemical constituent was found to be poly[oxy-1-carboxy-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)ethylene],  according to IR and NMR spectroscopy. The Symphytum high-molecular preparations can modulate in vitro B- chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells apoptosis and cell cycle progression."
3334	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells display low amounts of surface immunoglobulins (sIg). To investigate the mechanisms underlying this phenomenon,  we performed a thorough study of surface and intracellular expression of the B-cell receptor (BCR) components in B-CLL cells using flow cytometry. There was an heterogeneous pattern of expression. Overall, 20 of 22 samples showed reduced  sIgM levels, compared with normal B cells. Among them, three (15%) had very low to undetectable intracellular IgM levels and variable amounts of CD79a and CD79b; nine (45%) had low intracellular CD79b levels but appreciable levels of IgM and CD79a; and eight (40%) had relatively normal intracellular levels of all BCR components. To investigate whether surface BCR levels could be controlled by the  rate of CD79b synthesis, adenoviral vectors encoding CD79b were generated and used for gene transfer experiments. Delivery of CD79b to non-B cells transfected  with IgM and CD79a lead to high-level expression of a functional BCR. Moreover, CD79b gene transfer in a B cell line derived from a B-CLL patient and characterised by low intracellular levels of endogenous CD79b consistently increased sIgM levels. These findings indicate that the phenotype of B-CLL cells  in a subset of patients may depend primarily on poor CD79b expression, and suggest that upregulation of CD79b expression may correct the phenotype of these  cells."
3335	"(De-)regulation of apoptosis plays an important role in normal and malignant lymphopoiesis. Apoptosis-regulating genes of the BCL-2 family and the recently identified inhibitors of apoptosis (IAP) family have been implicated in different types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). To investigate whether expression of specific apoptosis-regulating genes correlated with different types of lymphoid malignancies, we measured the expression of five BCL-2 family genes, four IAP family genes and SMAC by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction in patient samples. In total, 137 samples from B- and T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), six different NHL types and three control tissue types were analysed. The data were further analysed using cluster and discriminant analysis. Three specific expression patterns were identified for CLL, ALL and NHL respectively. CLL samples, as well  as B-ALL and follicular lymphoma samples showed high similarity in the expression of these apoptosis-regulating genes and could be distinguished from each other and other diseases and controls. Discriminant analysis identified three members of the IAP family, C-IAP1, C-IAP2 and SURVIVIN, as the most informative genes to  discriminate between these lymphoid malignancies."
3336	"Two non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL), one chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma and one diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and three cases of myeloid leukaemia, two chronic (CML) and one acute (AML), showed, by G-banding analysis, apparently identical chromosomal translocations t(14;22)(q32;q11), in three of the cases as the sole abnormality. Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) analysis with locus-specific probes for ABL at 9q34 [bacterial artificial  chromosomes (BACs) 835J22 and 1132H12], IGH at 14q32 [P1 artificial chromosome (PAC) 998D24] and IGL (PAC 1019H10) and BCR (BAC 74M14) at 22q11, as well as multicolour in situ hybridisation (M-FISH) analyses were performed. A three-way variant translocation of the classical t(9;22)(q34;q11), t(9;22;14)(q34;q11;q32), involving both BCR and ABL, was unravelled by the molecular cytogenetic investigations in the three myeloid leukaemia cases; a similar variant translocation has previously been reported in seven CML. The two cases of NHL (one NHL with a similar 14;22-translocation has been reported previously) had no  involvement of BCR or ABL, but instead the IGH and IGL genes were shown to be juxtaposed by the t(14;22)(q32;q11). How such a rearrangement with recombination  of IGH and IGL might elicit a pathogenetic effect is completely unknown."
3338	"Fourteen adult patients with haematological malignancies (eight non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, one multiple myeloma, one chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, two acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and two acute myeloid leukaemia) developed acute interstitial pneumonitis (IP) during the course of chemotherapy. All patients manifested high fever over 38 degrees C, bilateral diffuse pulmonary interstitial infiltrates in the chest radiograph and severe hypoxia without hypercapnia in the arterial blood gas analysis. Pathogenic microorganisms were not detected in repeated examinations in any patient. Chemotherapy given included various anti-neoplastic drugs. Five patients had received granulocyte colony-stimulating  factor (G-CSF) for chemotherapy-induced leucopenia. The onset was associated with an increase of leucocytes in 10 patients. All patients were treated with high dose steroid hormone and broad spectrum antibiotics with or without anti-fungal agents, and three required mechanical ventilation. Eleven patients quickly recovered from these situations, whereas three died. Autopsies were done in two patients and disclosed pneumocystis carinii (PC) pneumonitis in one and non-specific pulmonary congestive oedema and fibrosis in the other. In conclusion, IP of unknown cause could develop in patients with various haematological malignancies especially at the recovery phase of chemotherapy-induced leucopenia irrespective of the previous G-CSF administration. High dose steroid hormone should be used as therapy for such patients as soon as possible after exclusion of an infective aetiology."
3340	"The purpose of this study was to assess in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients the prevalence and clinical impact of CD38 expression, evaluated prospectively at disease presentation, and to verify whether this parameter changes over time. In 242 consecutive and untreated CLL patients, the percentage  of CD38+ cases, according to the 7%, 20% and 30% cut-off points, was 21%, 17% and 14%, respectively. Using the 7% threshold, CD38 positivity correlated with male sex, intermediate and high-risk (Rai I-IV) disease, lower Hb and platelet levels, and higher lymphocyte count. Furthermore, patients with a CD38 expression>or=7% showed a significantly lower 3-year probability of treatment-free survival (TFS)  than CD38- patients (P<0.0001). At multivariate analysis, CD38 expression remained significantly associated to TFS, together with stage, lymphocyte count and morphology. Also, in the 146 patients with stage 0 CLL a CD38 expression>or=7% identified a subgroup of patients with a significantly lower 3-year probability of TFS (P=0.0005). Furthermore, this parameter did not change  in 30 of 31 (97%) re-evaluated patients. In conclusion, this study indicates that, when tested at diagnosis and on fresh material, a CD38 expression>or=7% is  an important parameter for the identification of early CLL patients with more aggressive disease and that its expression remains stable over time."
3342	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) follows a variable clinical course with patient survival ranging from only a few years despite treatment, to several decades in patients who may never require clinical intervention. Determination of the mutational status of a patient's immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region (Ig V(H)) gene has been used to provide prognostic information, but this assay is not available in most laboratories. The discovery of the expression of the protein tyrosine kinase zeta-associated protein (ZAP)-70 in V(H)-unmutated CLL cases led to its proposal as a surrogate marker for V(H) status. This study investigated the measurement of ZAP-70 expression in CLL using different flow cytometric protocols. Two different antibodies and two different staining methods were compared. The Caltag ZAP-70 antibody and Fix & Perm kit were the easiest to  use and were the most sensitive and specific combination, with 91% concordance between ZAP-70 expression and V(H) status. Three patients (9%) were discordant (two V(H) mutated/ZAP-70 positive, and one V(H) unmutated/ZAP-70 negative). No correlation existed between CD38 and either ZAP-70 expression or V(H) status. Measurement of ZAP-70 expression using the Caltag antibody/kit combination provides a standardized flow cytometric method that could be introduced into a routine CLL immunophenotyping panel in a clinical diagnostic laboratory."
3343	"In this work, we have studied the response rates and duration of response after low-dose (4 Gy) involved field radiotherapy (LD-IF-RT) in relapsed or chemotherapy refractory indolent and aggressive lymphoma patients. 71 patients (177 symptomatic sites) received LD-IF-RT consisting of 39 males and 32 females with a median age of 69 years (range 43-93). Patients included were those with small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (n=23), marginal zone lymphoma, nodal type (n=18), mantle cell lymphoma (n=17), and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (n=13). Bulky disease (5 cm) was present in 73% of all patients.  A median of two prior chemotherapy regimens (range 0-10) preceded LD-IF-RT. Median time since diagnosis was 31 months (range 1-216 months). Time to (local) progression was calculated according to the Kaplan-Meier method. Differences in response rates were compared using the chi2-test. The results showed that overall response rate was 87%; complete remission (CR) was reached in 34 patients (48%) and a partial remission (PR) in 28 patients (39%). Stable disease (SD) was maintained in nine patients (13%). The median time to progression (TP) was 12 months and the median time to local progression (TLP) was 22 months. The 34 CR patients showed a median TP of 16 months and a median TLP of 23 months. None of the factors studied (age, sex, lymphoma subtype, radiotherapy regimen, number of  prior regimens or time since diagnosis, number of positive sites or largest lymphoma diameter) were found to relate to response. At time of death 70% of patients were without in-field progression after LD-IF-RT. It appears that LD-IF-RT is a valuable asset in the management of relapsed disease in both indolent and aggressive lymphoma and should be considered to palliate symptoms in patients with recurrent and/or chemotherapy refractory disease."
3344	"AIMS: The electronic database of the institute of pathology, Medical University of Innsbruck, was reviewed and patient histories studied to analyse systematically the coincidence of granulomatous reactions and lymphomas in a large patient collective, and to find distinct clinicopathological correlations.  Five cases of small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) associated with granulomatous reactions in lymph nodes and bone marrow were identified, all clinically associated with signs of progressive disease. METHODS: Cases were acquired by reviewing an electronic database comprising approximately 715,000 patients diagnosed between 1993 and 2003. Histochemical, immunohistochemical, and molecular techniques were used to verify diagnosis and associated infectious diseases. Clinical data were obtained from reviewing the charts. RESULTS: Of 2044 bone marrow and 411 lymph node non-Hodgkin lymphoma biopsy samples, CLL was most frequently associated with bone marrow (two cases) and lymph node granulomas (three cases). These granulomas were mostly composed of epithelioid cells, with or without giant cells, and in all but one case did not show necrosis. All patients with CLL had clinical symptoms primarily caused by the granulomatous disease: two suffered from acid fast bacilli infections (Mycobacterium tuberculosis and mycobacteria other than tuberculosis) and three presented with clinical manifestations of sarcoidosis (the reason a diagnostic biopsy was performed). CONCLUSIONS: Granulomatous reactions in patients with CLL might obscure diagnosis and imitate disease progression and Richter's transformation. Careful histological examination, exclusion of infectious agents, and a detailed clinical history are essential for correct diagnosis."
3345	"OBJECTIVES: To provide direct estimates of risk of cancer after protracted low doses of ionising radiation and to strengthen the scientific basis of radiation protection standards for environmental, occupational, and medical diagnostic exposures. DESIGN: Multinational retrospective cohort study of cancer mortality. SETTING: Cohorts of workers in the nuclear industry in 15 countries. PARTICIPANTS: 407 391 workers individually monitored for external radiation with  a total follow-up of 5.2 million person years. MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Estimates of excess relative risks per sievert (Sv) of radiation dose for mortality from cancers other than leukaemia and from leukaemia excluding chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, the main causes of death considered by radiation protection authorities. RESULTS: The excess relative risk for cancers other than leukaemia was 0.97 per Sv, 95% confidence interval 0.14 to 1.97. Analyses of causes of death related or  unrelated to smoking indicate that, although confounding by smoking may be present, it is unlikely to explain all of this increased risk. The excess relative risk for leukaemia excluding chronic lymphocytic leukaemia was 1.93 per  Sv (< 0 to 8.47). On the basis of these estimates, 1-2% of deaths from cancer among workers in this cohort may be attributable to radiation. CONCLUSIONS: These estimates, from the largest study of nuclear workers ever conducted, are higher than, but statistically compatible with, the risk estimates used for current radiation protection standards. The results suggest that there is a small excess risk of cancer, even at the low doses and dose rates typically  received by nuclear workers in this study."
3347	"Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is performed in an increasing number of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients who are in the  first remission following fludarabine treatment. There are contradictory data about the adverse impact of fludarabine on stem cell harvest. We analysed retrospectively mobilization results in 56 poor-risk CLL patients (median age: 56 years) who underwent first-line treatment with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide.  The mobilization, consisting of cyclophosphamide 3 g/m(2) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) 10 microg/kg per day, was performed with a median of 77 days following the last fludarabine course. The target yield was >or=2.0x10(6) CD34+ cells/kg. The procedure was successful in 23 (41%) patients.  A median of 3.3x10(6) CD34+ cells/kg was collected per patient. The successful mobilization was associated with a longer interval from the last chemotherapy (>2 months). The mobilization result was not influenced by the number of fludarabine  cycles. No correlation was found in other parameters such as disease stage at diagnosis, disease status at stimulation or age. The poorly mobilized patients had significantly lower prestimulation blood counts (platelets, WBC and haemoglobin). Our data show that fludarabine does not generally prevent the stem  cell mobilization; nevertheless, mechanisms related to the impact of fludarabine  on stem cell harvest must be further investigated."
3348	"A recombinant bispecific single-chain fragment variable antibody (bsscFv), directed against the B-cell antigen CD19 and the low affinity Fc-receptor FcgammaRIII (CD16), was designed for use in the treatment of patients with leukaemias and lymphomas. The Fc-portions of whole antibodies were deliberately eliminated in this construct to avoid undesired effector functions. A stabilised  bsscFv, ds[CD19 x CD16], was generated, in which disulphide bonds bridging the respective variable light (VL) and variable heavy (VH) chains were introduced into both component single-chain (sc)Fvs. After production in 293T cells and chromatographic purification, ds[CD19 x CD16] specifically and simultaneously bound both antigens. The serum stability of ds[CD19 x CD16] was increased more than threefold when compared with the unstabilised counterpart, while other biological properties were not affected by these mutations. In antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity experiments, ds[CD19 x CD16] mediated specific lysis of both CD19-positive malignant human B-lymphoid cell lines and primary tumour cells from patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia or B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Natural killer cells, mononuclear cells (MNCs) from healthy donors and, in some instances, MNCs isolated from patients after allogeneic stem cell transplantation, were used as effectors. Thus, ds[CD19 x CD16] holds promise for the treatment of CD19(+) B-lineage malignancies."
3349	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is characterized by the accumulation of long-lived B lymphocytes blocked in G(0/1) by impaired apoptosis. As insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is known for its antiapoptotic effects in different cell  types, we investigated whether IGF-I and its receptor (IGF-IR) participate in autocrine/paracrine loops affecting the survival of CLL cells. IGF-IR protein and mRNA was present in CLL cells in 44% and 59% of patients respectively. IGF-IR expression in CLL patients was positively correlated with the expression of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 and was involved in CLL cell survival in vitro. Serum IGF-I was elevated in CLL patients, but growth hormone (GH) was normal. CLL cells expressed IGF-I mRNA and secreted the growth factor in vitro. Therefore, local production of IGF-I can account for the increased levels of serum IGF-I, independently of GH, and may be related to autocrine/paracrine control of lymphocyte survival acting at IGF-IR. This is the first demonstration of IGF-IR expression in a subgroup of CLL patients and of its antiapoptotic effects in vitro, highlighting the importance of this growth factor receptor as a possible therapeutic target in CLL."
3350	"Translocations involving IGH are common in some lymphoid malignancies but are believed to be rare in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). To study the clinical utility of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for IGH translocations, we reviewed 1032 patients with a presumptive diagnosis of CLL. Seventy-six (7%) patients had IGH translocations. Pathology and clinical data were available for the 24 patients evaluated at the Mayo Clinic. Ten (42%) patients had IGH/cyclin D1 fusion and were diagnosed with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). The immunophenotype was typical of MCL in three of these patients and atypical for MCL in seven patients. One patient had biclonal disease with typical MCL and CLL with IGH/BCL-2. Eleven (46%) patients had IGH/BCL-2 fusion including the patient with  biclonal disease. Two of these patients had leukaemic phase follicular lymphoma and nine patients had CLL. The median progression-free survival of patients with  CLL and IGH/BCL-2 translocation was 20.6 months. The two patients with IGH/BCL-3  fusion (one of these also had IGH/BCL-11a) had rapid disease progression. The IGH partner gene was not identified in two patients. We conclude that use of an IGH probe in FISH analysis of monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis improves diagnostic precision and could have prognostic value in patients with CLL."
3354	"In the last decade, several new promising treatments for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) have been developed. Healthcare costs are increasing and new treatments tend to be very expensive; therefore, information about the cost effectiveness in treatments for CLL is urgently needed. The authors performed a literature review on the currently available economic evaluations on CLL treatments. A total of 65 articles were found, of which 11 could be included. These articles were evaluated on the basis of six methodological requirements for economic evaluations, enabling readers to judge the value of the studies. Only a  small amount of information was available on the costs of CLL treatments. Future  economic evaluations should be performed according to the methodological requirements for these studies, which should also be properly documented."
3355	"Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) activation has been proposed as a cardinal feature of tumourigenesis, although the precise mechanism, frequency, relevance,  and extent of NF-kappaB activation in lymphomas remain to be fully elucidated. In this study, expression profiling and tissue microarray studies of 209 and 323 non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs) respectively, including the most frequent sub-types of NHL, were employed to generate a hypothesis concerning the most common NF-kappaB targets in NHL. These analyses showed that NF-kappaB activation  is a common phenomenon in NHL, resulting in the expression of distinct sets of NF-kappaB target genes, depending on the cell context. BCL2 and BIRC5/Survivin were identified as key NF-kappaB targets and their expression distinguished small and aggressive B-cell lymphomas, respectively. Interestingly, in the vast majority of B-cell lymphomas, the expression of these markers was mutually exclusive. A set of genes was identified whose expression correlates either with  BIRC5/Survivin or with BCL2. BIRC5/Survivin expression, in contrast to BCL2, was  associated with a signature of cell proliferation (overexpression of cell cycle control, DNA repair, and polymerase genes), which may contribute to the aggressive phenotype and poor prognosis of these lymphomas. Strikingly, mantle cell lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia expressed highly elevated levels  of BCL2 protein and mRNA, higher than that observed in reactive mantle zone cells or even in follicular lymphomas, where BCL2 expression is deregulated through the t(14;18) translocation. In parallel with this observation, BIRC5/Survivin expression was higher in Burkitt's lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma than in non-tumoural germinal centre cells. In vitro studies confirmed that NF-kappaB activation contributes to the expression of both markers. In cell lines representing aggressive lymphomas, NF-kappaB inhibition resulted in a decrease in BIRC5/Survivin expression. Meanwhile, in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL)-derived lymphocytes, NF-kappaB inhibition resulted in a marked decrease in  BCL2 expression."
3356	"The notion that inherited predisposition contributes to the development of haematological malignancies is generally thought of as being a relatively new idea. However, Videbaek made a clear enunciation of such a hypothesis in 1947, from a study of tumour incidence in relatives of patients with different leukaemias. To gain further insight into inherited susceptibility to chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), we followed up the descendants of Videbaek's 'Pedigree 14' series of families. Using the Danish medical and pedigree databases, complete tracing of 222 descendants of the original 57 family members  was achieved. To date, 10 family members have been diagnosed with CLL, one with T-cell lymphoma and 17 with nonhaematological cancers, including five with breast cancer. The detailed follow up of this family provides further support for inherited predisposition to CLL and illustrates the value of follow-up studies of previously published family material for genetic analyses."
3358	"The NF-kB transcription factor plays a key role in the regulation of apoptosis by modulating expression of a wide range of cell death control molecules. NF-kB also plays an important role in human diseases by promoting inappropriate cell survival. Small molecule inhibitors of NF-kB are therefore likely to provide novel therapeutic opportunities. Sulfasalazine (SFZ) is a synthetic anti-inflammatory comprising an aminosalicylate, 5-amino salicylic acid (5-ASA),  linked to an antibiotic, sulfapyridine (SPY). SFZ, but not 5-ASA or SPY, inhibits activation of NF-kB. We synthesised a small number of SFZ analogues and determined their ability to inhibit NF-kB activity and promote apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and hepatic stellate cells, where NF-kB plays an important role in cell survival. Remarkably, 3 of the 6 analogues synthesised were significantly more effective (up to 8-fold) inhibitors of NF-kB dependent transcription and this increased activity was associated with enhanced apoptosis. Therefore, it is possible to readily improve the NF-kB inhibiting activity of SFZ and analogues of SFZ may be attractive therapeutic agents for malignancies and chronic liver disease where NF-kB is thought to play a significant role."
3359	"The mutational status of the variable region of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (IgV(H)) is an important prognostic marker in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), with mutated patients having improved outcome. To examine the  impact of mutational status on V(H), D(H), and J(H) gene segment location and immunogenicity, we analysed 375 IgH sequences from 356 patients with B-CLL. Although V(H) and D(H) gene usage was different in mutated compared to unmutated  patients, there was no impact of gene location on frequency of use or clinical outcome. Surprisingly, somatic mutations did not increase the immunogenicity of the Ig, as assessed by predicted binding affinity of Ig-derived peptides to major histocompatibility Class I and Class II molecules. Even excluding patients using  V(H)1-69, cases using the V(H)1 gene family had a poor outcome. Both mutated and  unmutated CLL patients demonstrated evidence of antigen selection. The worst outcome was seen in the subset of 14 unmutated patients with similar HCDR3 amino  acid sequence using V(H)1-69, D(H)3-3 and J(H)6, suggesting an antigen-driven process modulating the clinical course."
3360	"AIMS: This paper describes a national audit of the indications for, and techniques and toxicity of, palliative splenic radiotherapy in haematological disorders. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A postal questionnaire was sent to consultant clinical oncologists treating haematological malignancies in the UK. RESULTS: The response rate was 76%. The audit shows chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, myelofibrosis and chronic myeloid leukaemia to be the most common underlying conditions in which splenic irradiation is used. Painful splenomegaly  and hypersplenism were the most common indications. Dose fractionation schedules  vary widely across the UK, and also the level of full blood counts used to interrupt radiotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: Palliative splenic radiotherapy continues to be widely used in the UK in small numbers of patients and seems to be well tolerated. Re-irradiation for further symptomatic progression is also commonly carried out."
3361	"OBJECTIVE: The anti-tumour in vitro activity of proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (PS-341, VELCADE) in combination with purine nucleoside analogues, cladribine (2-CdA) and fludarabine (FA) was tested in lymphocytes derived from 26 patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). METHODS: Cell viability was assessed by propidium iodide staining, and apoptosis  by annexin-V and caspase activation flow cytometry assays. Additionally, expression of the apoptosis-regulating proteins Bax, Bak, Bid, Bcl-w, Bcl-2, XIAP and Mcl-1 was evaluated in B-CLL lymphocytes. RESULTS: Bortezomib alone induced significant, dose-dependent cytotoxicity starting from the low concentration 2.5 nm, inducing apoptosis of B-CLL cells. Combination of this agent with 2-CdA or FA resulted in an increase of cytotoxicity when compared with that mediated by single drugs. The observed increase was especially evident when 5 nm of bortezomib were combined with suboptimal doses of 2-CdA or FA. The combination index (CI) was 0.87 for bortezomib + 2-CdA and 0.82 for bortezomib + FA, indicating an evident additive effect of these combinations. Moreover, B-CLL cells were more sensitive to proteasome inhibitor used alone or combined with 2-CdA or FA comparing to CD3+ lymphocytes. Corresponding to enhanced apoptosis, the expression levels of several apoptosis-regulating proteins were altered. The most pronounced changes were down-regulation of XIAP and up-regulation of Bid proteins by the combination of bortezomib with either 2-CdA or FA. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggest that the in vitro cytotoxic effect through proteasome inhibition by bortezomib can be increased substantially with low doses of the purine nucleoside analogues, 2-CdA and FA, and that this effect on B-CLL cell is selectively higher than on normal, CD3-positive lymphocytes."
3362	"Some cellular and molecular features of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells that are associated with prognosis may reflect the context within which their progenitors encountered antigen. It follows that the nature of antigen drive in CLL could influence the clinical course and we were prompted to assess the impact, if any, of affinity maturation (an antigen-driven process) on prognosis.  Statistical models for assessing affinity maturation status are typically applied to V(H) gene sequence data analysed using a web-based resource like IMGT or VBASE. Since these resources differ with respect to some key relevant features, we evaluated a cohort of CLL cases by applying statistical models to V(H) data derived from both IMGT and VBASE. Important differences between the resulting data sets became apparent. These resulted from database variance and because IMGT and VBASE define complementarity-determining and framework regions (CDRs, FRs) in different ways. Thus, the numbers of mutations identified and their distribution  between CDRs/FRs varied between the data sets for the majority of clones. Consequently, two different but overlapping sets of cases with evidence of affinity maturation were defined. Notwithstanding their differences, no significant associations of affinity maturation status with CD38 expression, p53  functional status or survival were identifiable in either data set."
3365	"B cell type chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells carry the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) receptor CD21 and can be infected in vitro with the virus. The infected cells exhibit an unusual EBV program, they express the nuclear proteins  but not latent membrane protein 1 (LMP-1). Similar cells were encountered in lymphoid tissues of infectious mononucleosis (IM) patients and in lymphoproliferations of immunosuppressed patients. EBV infected B-CLL cells can be regarded as model for this viral program. In B cells the regulation of LMP-1 is executed mainly by EBV encoded nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA-2), interacting with several cellular proteins and these complexes bind to specific sequences in the LMP-1 promoter. ATF2 and c-Jun were shown to be among the interacting partners of EBNA-2. These molecules can be detected in experimentally infected B lymphocytes. We found c-Jun and/or phosphorylated ATF-2 (p-ATF-2) expression in some B-CLL ex  vivo samples. They disappeared or their expression declined promptly in explanted cells, even if they were infected with EBV in vitro. Activation of the infected B-CLL cells by exposure to CD40L was accompanied by p-ATF-2 and c-Jun but not by  LMP-1 expression. In one of three clones tested, subsequent treatment with histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), TSA or n-butyrate, could induce LMP-1. Treatment with phorbol-12, 13-dibutyrate (PDB) induced LMP-1 expression in three  of four clones. Neither the HDACi nor the PDB treated cells survived."
3366	"The transformation of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) into large-cell lymphoma (Richter's syndrome, RS) is a well-documented phenomenon. Only rarely does CLL transform into Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL). To further analyse the clinico-pathological and genetic findings in the HL variant of RS, we performed a single-institution study in four patients, who developed HL within a mean of 107  months after diagnosis of CLL. All were treated with fludarabine. Three cases were Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated mixed cellularity (MC) HL, the fourth was nodular sclerosis (NS) HL without EBV association. The sites involved by HL included supra- and infradiaphragmal lymph nodes and the tonsils; stage IV disease was also documented. All patients presented with CLL treatment-resistant  lymphadenopathies and B-symptoms. In two of the MC cases, molecular analysis performed on CLL samples and microdissected Hodgkin and Reed-Sternberg cells (HRSC) suggested a clonal relationship, while in NS no indication of a clonal relationship was detected. In summary, HL can occur in CLL patients at any site,  up to 17 years after initial diagnosis, especially after treatment with fludarabine. The majority present with B-symptoms and CLL treatment-resistant lymphadenopathy, are of the MC type, clonally related to CLL and might be triggered by an EBV infection."
3367	"Abnormalities of p53 have been associated with short survival and non-response to therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We have evaluated the rate of response to fludarabine as first-line therapy in 54 patients with advanced stage  CLL, analysing the cytogenetic profile, aberrations in p53, including the methylation status of its promoter, and the immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable-region (IGVH) mutation status. According to the advanced stage of the disease in this series, 75% of patients presented genetic aberrations associated  with poor prognosis: del(17p) and/or del(11q), and no-mutated IGVH genes. Ten patients (18.5%) had methylation in the promoter region of p53. Eighty-three per  cent of patients treated achieved a response, with a high rate of complete remission (47.6%). Although we found a significant correlation between failures and the presence of p53 aberrations (P = 0.0065), either with methylation (P = 0.018) or deletion (P = 0.015), 64% of the patients with aberrations in this gene responded to treatment (11/17), suggesting that fludarabine induces high remission rates, even in these patients. This is the first time that the significance of p53 promoter methylation status is described in this pathology, and our data support that this epigenetic phenomenon could be involved in the pathogenesis and clinical evolution of CLL."
3368	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the most common B-cell malignancy in the Western world and exists as subtypes with very different clinical courses. CLL is generally described as a disease of failed apoptosis. Apoptosis resistance may stem from a combination of microenvironmental survival signals as well as from intrinsic alterations in the apoptotic machinery within the CLL cell. The molecular mechanism involved in controlling apoptosis in CLL is complex and is influenced by many factors, including Bcl-2 family proteins, which are critical regulators of cell death. Here we review the significance of apoptosis dysregulation in CLL, focusing on the role of Bcl-2 and related Bcl-2 family proteins, such as Bax and Mcl-1. The differential properties of the newly described subsets of CLL are also highlighted."
3369	"A 73-year-old woman was presented with altered mental status and disorientation.  She was diabetic and hypertensive, and she had experienced an ischemic cerebrovascular accident 3 years ago. Physical examination revealed the findings  of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cor pulmonale and congestive heart failure. Hepatomegaly, splenomegaly and ascites were found and might be associated with postsinusoidal portal hypertension secondary to congestive heart  failure. Laboratory tests showed uremia, lymphocytosis and thrombocytopenia. Neurologic findings were related with uremia and hypoxia. Multiple pathologic lymphadenopathies were seen in abdominal ultrasonography and thoracic computed tomography. Bone marrow histology indicated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL).  The reason for acute renal failure was leukaemic infiltration of the kidneys due  to CLL that was shown with renal biopsy. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine responded well to cyclophosphamide and methyl prednisolone treatment.  In CLL, direct renal involvement is frequently seen in autopsy studies especially in advanced disease, however, renal failure due to leukaemic infiltration is extremely rare."
3372	"CONTEXT: Lymph node involvement in pancreatic cancer is a predictor of poor patient long-term survival. The detection of multiple metastatic peri-pancreatic  nodes by EUS-FNA may dissuade the surgeon from undertaking a curative pancreatic  resection. CASE REPORT: We report an interesting case of a man with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, who presented with the diagnostic problem of a pancreatic solid-cystic  lesion and multiple malignant-looking peri-pancreatic lymphadenopathy on EUS. EUS-FNA yielded chronic lymphocytic leukaemia involvement in the peri-pancreatic  lymph nodes and a markedly elevated CEA in the cystic fluid. The absence of adenocarcinoma involvement of the lymph nodes prompted surgery on the pancreatic  lesion with a curative intent. Pancreatic mucinous cystadenocarcinoma was diagnosed and a sub-total pancreatectomy was performed with clear resection margins. All 30 resected peri-pancreatic lymph nodes showed chronic lymphocytic leukemia involvement only. CONCLUSIONS: This case illustrates that abnormal lymphadenopathy adjacent to a primary pancreatic lesion may not necessarily be due to the latter. Systemic lymphoproliferative disease, as in this case, can masquerade as metastatic adenocarcinoma lymph nodes on EUS. EUS-FNA is useful in diagnosing lymphoproliferative disease."
3373	"The btg1 (B-cell translocation gene 1) gene coding sequence was isolated from a translocation break point in a case of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. We have already shown that BTG1, considered as an antiproliferative protein, strongly stimulates myoblast differentiation. However, the mechanisms involved in this influence remained unknown. In cultured myoblasts, we found that BTG1 stimulates the transcriptional activity of nuclear receptors (T3 and all-trans retinoic acid receptors but not RXRalpha and PPARgamma), c-Jun and myogenic factors (CMD1, Myf5, myogenin). Immunoprecipitation experiments performed in cells or using in vitro-synthesized proteins and GST pull-down assays established that BTG1 directly interacts with T3 and all-trans retinoic acid receptors and with avian MyoD (CMD1). These interactions are mediated by the transactivation domain of each transcription factor and the A box and C-terminal part of BTG1. NCoR presence induces the ligand dependency of the interaction with nuclear receptors. Lastly, deletion of BTG1 interacting domains abrogates its ability to  stimulate nuclear receptors and CMD1 activity, and its myogenic influence. In conclusion, BTG1 is a novel important coactivator involved in the regulation of myoblast differentiation. It not only stimulates the activity of myogenic factors, but also of nuclear receptors already known as positive myogenic regulators."
3374	"A 63-year-old man with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia developed pyoderma gangrenosum following minor trauma to the leg. He required intensive inpatient management with a multitude of treatments including larval therapy, surgical debridement, ciclosporin, methotrexate, thalidomide, pulsed intravenous methylprednisolone and high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin, clofazamine and high dose oral corticosteroids, none of which were helpful. Treatment complications included steroid-induced diabetes, Cushing's syndrome and perforated peptic ulcer. The pyoderma remained refractory to treatment and continued to extend until he received intravenous infliximab 5 mg/kg at weeks 0, 2 and 6."
3376	"A 65-year-old male presented with a history of disseminated erythema annulare centrifugum lesions and a high peripheral blood eosinophilia (55%). Histopathology of a lesion revealed a superficial and deep perivascular and interstitial inflammatory eosinophilic infiltrate. The bone marrow aspirate showed a heavy eosinophilic infiltrate. There was no evidence of any other systemic involvement except for bone marrow eosinophilia. The patient had a 6-year history of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. The disease is in complete remission for the last 3 years. The clinical and histopathological findings in the reported patient correspond to the diagnosis of hypereosinophilic dermatitis. Topical treatment with corticosteroid creams was successful. The cutaneous lesions gradually resolved in 8 weeks, within 7 months the peripheral blood eosinophilia slowly declined from 55% to 7%."
3377	"ZAP-70 is a tyrosine kinase that participates in early B-cell differentiation and is a prognostic factor in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), where it is associated with an unmutated configuration of the IgV(H) genes. In this study ZAP-70 expression was studied by immunohistochemistry in a spectrum of B-cell lymphoid neoplasms; this staining method was compared with flow cytometry, and the relationship of ZAP-70 expression to mutational status and prognosis was assessed. 242 tissue samples from 225 patients with B-cell lymphoid neoplasms arising at different maturational stages were included. Flow cytometry was performed in all CLL cases (n = 52). IgV(H) mutational status was determined in 25 CLL and 12 mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients. ZAP-70 was positive in 34/52 (65%) CLL, 9/31 (31%) Burkitt's lymphoma, 2/7 (29%) lymphoblastic lymphomas, 3/36 (8%) MCL, 1/23 (4%) marginal zone lymphoma, and 1/45 (2%) diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, but in none of the 19 follicular lymphomas or the 14 Hodgkin lymphomas. An identical ZAP-70 pattern was obtained in six patients with simultaneous biopsies from different sites and in 12 patients with sequential biopsies. Immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry gave identical results in 48 the 52 CLLs. All but one ZAP-70-positive CLL had IgV(H) gene in an unmutated configuration, whereas all but one ZAP-70-negative CLL had somatically hypermutated IgV(H). The 12 MCLs analysed were ZAP-70 negative regardless of IgV(H) mutational status (4 mutated, 8 unmutated). ZAP-70 positive CLL was associated with a shorter overall survival (median time 103 months vs. 293 months, p = 0.01) and a shorter time to disease progression (median time 26 months vs. 60 months, p = 0.01). In conclusion, ZAP-70 is expressed in several types of B-cell neoplasm and is easily detected by immunohistochemistry, providing a useful prognostic marker in patients with CLL from whom no other material is available or when other techniques for its assessment cannot be performed."
3378	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a unique malignancy where quiescent B cells accumulate in the peripheral blood. Since clinical outcomes in CLL are very heterogeneous, it is of utmost importance to correctly assess the disease prognosis in each individual case. Recently, it has been shown that high ZAP-70 [Zeta-chain (T-cell receptor) associated protein kinase (70 kDa)] expression level strongly correlates with lack of IgV(H) mutations and poor prognosis in B-CLL. As CLL malignant cells are arrested in G(0), we investigated whether Dipeptidyl Peptidase 2 (DPP2), a serine protease that plays a key role in keeping cells in the quiescent state, is involved in cell-cycle control in CLL. We have previously shown that specific inhibition of DPP2 results in apoptosis of normal  lymphocytes. In this study, cell apoptosis experiments were conducted in 38 patients with B-CLL. Two distinct subsets of B-CLL were identified, susceptible and resistant to DPP2-inhibition-induced apoptosis. If resistant to apoptosis (42.1%), the CLL cells have higher expression of ZAP-70 and exhibit a worse prognosis, such as shorter treatment-free time period. Thus, resistance vs. susceptibility to DPP2-inhibiton induced apoptosis can be employed as a novel prognostic factor in CLL."
3379	"Chromosome abnormalities influence prognosis and tumour progression in B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia (CLL). This study sought to determine whether these different disease subgroups were associated with unique gene expression patterns. Thirty-four cases of CLL were screened for the 11q23, 13q14, 17p13 deletions, and trisomy 12 by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Expression of 205 cell signalling and apoptosis genes were compared by cDNA array among cases with different chromosome abnormalities. A majority of the statistically differentially expressed genes were present in the 11q23 deletion group by hierarchical clustering. CDC2, a serine/threonine kinase, was overexpressed in the 11q23 deletion group (P = 0.0004) and confirmed by Taqman real-time polymerase chain reaction. Several other genes associated with cell signalling were overexpressed in the 11q23 deletion group. A strong overall correlation existed between the presence of different chromosome abnormalities and a number of prognostic factors including immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region mutation status (P = 0.011), time to treatment (P = 0.025) and lymphocyte doubling time (P = 0.034). This study confirmed the prognostic impact of chromosome abnormalities identified by FISH in CLL, particularly the 11q23 deletion and trisomy 12. In addition, the 11q23 deletion group was associated with a unique gene expression pattern involving cell signalling and apoptosis genes."
3383	"The evolution of combination chemotherapy regimens, combined with improvements in supportive care, has incrementally improved survival outcomes for patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). Although 40-60% of younger patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma can now expect to be cured, significant numbers will either fail to achieve a remission or relapse after attaining a remission. In addition,  certain histological subtypes are associated with particularly poor prognoses with combination chemotherapy alone (e.g. mantle cell lymphoma, B-cell prolymphocytic leukaemia). Relatively few of these patients can achieve long-term responses. Other NHL subtypes, whilst associated with more favourable prognoses in terms of overall survival, are rarely, if ever, cured (e.g. most low grade NHL including follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma). For these reasons dose escalation and allogeneic transplantation have been investigated as potential ways of improving outcome, although this has mainly been in the setting of advanced disease. Any possible benefits have frequently been out-weighed by procedural morbidity and mortality.  The parallel development of transplantation approaches that limit procedural toxicity along with advances in supportive care require that the role of allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation in the management of lymphoma be re-evaluated."
3384	"Early results of autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) suggested a significant proportion of patients remained disease-free for years, raising the possibility of cure. More recent studies have shown no evidence of a plateau in the survival curves indicating that, at best, ASCT may only prolong disease-free survival. Problems remain over  progenitor cell mobilization and one study has raised anxieties about post-transplant myelodysplasia. The impact of ASCT in CLL will only be properly ascertained in a randomized clinical trial and this in underway in Europe. Initial results of conventional allogeneic transplantation (allo-SCT) were very disappointing, with an unacceptably high mortality, but did show that cure was possible in some patients. The introduction of reduced intensity conditioning has limited the early transplant-related mortality but it remains too early to determine what proportion of patients will be cured. In view of these uncertainties, is important that reduced intensity allo-SCT for CLL is conducted  in the context of a clinical trial. Finally, CLL is very heterogeneous condition  and great deal more is becoming understood about the prognostic factors. These will become important in allowing patients and their physicians a choice in balancing the risks of various treatment options."
3385	"The chronic lymphatic leukaemia (CLL) world was surprised to find that the disease split so neatly down the middle into those patients with unmutated immunoglobulin genes who were mainly men, had aggressive disease and were destined to die from their disease, on average at about 8 years from diagnosis, and those with mutated immunoglobulin genes who were equally distributed between  the sexes, had indolent disease and usually died of something else a quarter of a century later. This discovery gave fresh impetus to the investigation into the biology of CLL. We now know more about, though we are still not certain of, the cell of origin of the disease and how it functions and fails to function. Intriguing clues about the roles of infectious agents and the functioning of the  immune response have been scattered, but not quite put together. In addition, clinicians have been given a new tool for determining prognosis, though the tool  is too clumsy for day-to-day use and surrogates are being sought. Treatment strategies based on the new biology are in development."
3386	"Immunophenotyping of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is usually performed by flow cytometry on cell suspensions obtained from peripheral blood, bone marrow or biopsied tissue. Immunohistochemical analysis on routine sections  is less commonly performed; however, this approach allows the pathologist and the researcher to appreciate the immuno-architecture of the involved tissues and to gain insight into some of the events that influence the biology of the disease. In this review the authors focus on the following issues: immuno-architecture of  the proliferation centres, expression of CD23, MUM1/IRF-4 and cyclin D1, tyrosine phosphorylation and detection of the ZAP-70 kinase. Whenever possible, an attempt is made to interpret the immunohistochemical findings from a functional point of  view."
3387	"B-CLL cells express CD5 and IgM/IgD and thus have a mantle zone-like phenotype of naive cells, which, in normal conditions express unmutated Ig genes. However, recent studies have shown that 50%-70% of CLL harbour somatic mutations of VH genes, as if they had matured in a lymphoid follicle. Interestingly, the presence or absence of somatic hypermutation (SHM) process is associated with the use of particular VH genes. Particular alleles of the VH1-69 gene and the VH4-39 gene are preferentially expressed in an unmutated form, while VH4-34 or the majority of VH3 family genes frequently contain somatic mutations. The fact that some genes like VH1-69 and VH3-07 recombine this VH segment to particular JH segments  and the restricted use of CDR3 sequences by CLLs expressing the VH4-39 gene suggest that the observed differences in BCR structure in B-CLL could result from selection by distinct antigenic epitopes. It is currently unclear whether this putative antigen-driven process could occur prior to leukaemic transformation and/or that the precursors were transformed into leukaemic cells at distinct maturational stages. The mutational profile of Ig genes has been shown to be associated with disease prognosis. These results could favour the idea that CLL could correspond to two different diseases that look alike in morphologic and phenotypic terms. In CLL with mutated Ig genes, the proliferating B cell may have transited through germinal centres, the physiologic site of hypermutation, whereas in CLL with unmutated Ig genes the malignant B cell may derive from a pre-germinal centre naïve B cell. Despite these clinical and molecular differences, recent studies on gene expression profiling of B-CLL cells showed that CLL is characterized by a common gene expression signature that is irrespective of Ig mutational status and differs from other lymphoid cancers and  normal lymphoid subpopulations, suggesting that CLL cases share a common mechanism of transformation and/or cell of origin. Activation induced cytidine deaminase (AID) plays a key role in SHM and class switch recombination (CSR). However, the mechanisms accounting for AID action and control of its expression remain unclear. In a recent work we have shown that in contrast to normal circulating B-cells, AID transcripts are expressed constitutively in CLL patients undergoing active CSR, but interestingly this expression occurs predominately in  unmutated CLL B-cells. These data favour the view that AID protein may act differentially on CSR and SHM pathways, but the role-played by AID in both processes remains to be elucidated. Recent work indicates that AID is expressed in a small fraction of tumoral cells, which could suggest that this small fraction of cells may correspond to B-CLL cells that would have recently experienced an AID-inducing stimulus occurring in a specific microenvironment."
3388	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a neoplastic disease of unknown aetiology  characterised by an absolute lymphocytosis in peripheral blood and bone marrow. The disease is diagnosed most commonly in the elderly with the median age at diagnosis being about 65 years. The purine nucleoside analogues (PNAs) fludarabine, cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine) and pentostatin (2'-deoxycoformycin) are highly active in CLL, both in previously treated and in  refractory or relapsed patients. These three agents share similar chemical structures and mechanisms of action such as induction of apoptosis. However, they also exhibit significant differences, especially in their interactions with enzymes involved in adenosine and deoxyadenosine metabolism. Recent randomised studies suggest that fludarabine and cladribine have similar activity in CLL. However, clinical observations indicate the existence of cross-resistance between fludarabine and cladribine. Patients who received PNAs as their initial therapy and achieved long-lasting response can be successfully retreated with the same agent. PNAs administered in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents and/or monoclonal antibodies may produce higher response rates, including complete response (CR) or molecular CR, compared with PNAs alone or other treatment regimens. Management decisions are more difficult in elderly patients because of  the apparent increase in toxicity of PNAs in this population. In elderly patients, we recommend chlorambucil as the first-line treatment, with PNAs in lower doses in refractory or relapsed patients. Myelosuppression and infections,  including opportunistic varieties, are the most frequent adverse effects in patients with CLL treated with PNAs. Therefore, some investigators recommend routine antibacterial and antiviral prophylaxis during and after PNA treatment. This review presents current results and treatment strategies with the use of PNAs in CLL, especially in elderly patients."
3389	"Various quantitative PCR approaches have been utilized during the last years to provide information about the treatment efficacy and the risk of recurrent disease in haematological malignancies. Apart from the frequently used real-time  PCR, cost-saving modified standard PCR methods may be applied as well. This report evaluates the utility of the end-point comparative duplex PCR. We have used this method for monitoring of 35 patients with either NHL or CLL and observed a good correlation between quantitative molecular results and clinical outcome. There was also an agreement between comparative duplex PCR and real-time PCR in patients who were monitored by both methods. We therefore believe that use of this technique should be strongly considered instead of simple qualitative detection in monitoring of therapeutic outcome in NHL or CLL patients."
3390	"Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) remains an incurable disease and, notwithstanding the excellent remission rates now achieved with purine analogs and monoclonal antibodies, the vast majority of patients with CLL are destined to relapse after primary treatment. The management of relapsed CLL patients is then  dependent upon a number of factors, most importantly age, performance status, previous therapy administered, the response and duration of response to such therapy, and time from last therapy. Although prior therapy and response to such  therapy are important factors in determining next therapy, it is often difficult  to determine their importance from published studies. Furthermore, the goal of therapy, whether palliative or aggressive, must also be weighed into the decision when deciding on the next line of treatment. With many potential treatments available, the sequence of treatments and the timing of procedures such as stem cell transplantation remain controversial and are the focus of ongoing clinical trials."
3391	"Weak immunogenicity of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells may contribute to disease progression and inhibit the effectiveness of immunotherapies, such as  vaccines. Agents that can enhance the antigen presenting capabilities of CLL cells might then help to improve the clinical results of immunotherapies. This study investigated the effects of the common gamma chain-binding cytokines, interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-15, on costimulatory properties of primary CLL cells from 51 patients. IL-2 improved the ability of CLL cells to stimulate T cell proliferation and increased the expression of costimulatory molecules (particularly CD80) in a dose-dependent fashion, especially in CLL cells with weak expression of CD38. CD80 and CD86 induction by IL-2 were positively regulated through the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, while CD86 expression was negatively regulated through Janus kinase pathways. However, further activation with protein kinase C agonists was required for IL-2 activated CLL cells to stimulate autologous T cells sufficiently to clear bystander CLL cells from mixed lymphocyte responses. IL-15 had similar effects on the costimulatory properties of CLL cells. These results suggest a role for IL-2, or  IL-15, in immunotherapeutic strategies for CLL."
3392	"The study presents results of B and T lymphocytes population analysis in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia B cells and autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (CLL-B + AIHA). We evaluated the following groups of patients: (1) with newly recognized CLL-B and co-existent AIHA (untreated), (2) after short-term treatment with corticosteroids, (3) after treatment with chemotherapy and corticosteroids.  The control groups were made of patients with CLL-B without AIHA. The populations of lymphocytes and determination of cells immunophenotype were performed by means of flow cytometry. The analysed data were obtained from 25 patients. The untreated patients with CLL-B + AIHA presented significantly more numerous population of neoplastic cells CD19+ CD5+ in comparison with patients without AIHA. The patients with AIHA showed a reduced percentage of B CD19+ CD22+ cells in comparison with those without AIHA. Untreated patients with AIHA or after a short-term corticosteroid treatment showed a higher ratio of the number of CD19+  CD5+ cells to the number of T CD4+ and T CD8+ lymphocytes than CLL-B patients without AIHA. It can be presumed that the differences found may be related to the pathogenesis of the autoimmune haemolysis syndrome in patients with CLL-B."
3393	"The simultaneous presentation of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) is a very rare occurrence where optimal treatment is unknown. We present the case of a 65-yr-old man who was successfully treated with alemtuzumab monotherapy for both disorders, but at a cost of severe  infectious morbidity and prolonged pancytopenia."
3394	"OBJECTIVE: B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) can be divided into two clinical entities based on the immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (VH) gene mutation status, as cases with unmutated VH genes display a more aggressive disease with shorter survival time than mutated cases. The aim of this study was  to investigate whether differences in cellular drug resistance could give an explanation for these divergent clinical courses. METHODS: The VH gene mutation status was analysed in patients with previously untreated B-CLL using VH gene family-specific PCR amplification and nucleotide sequencing. In vitro sensitivity to cytarabine, fludarabine, cladribine, doxorubicin, idarubicin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, melphalan and prednisolone was assessed using the non-clonogenic in vitro assay, fluorometric microculture cytotoxicity assay. RESULTS: The VH genes and in vitro drug resistance were successfully analysed in  46 cases, revealing that 25 (54%) cases showed unmutated and 21 (46%) cases mutated VH genes. Interestingly, the unmutated group generally tended to be more  chemosensitive than the mutated group with significant differences for cytarabine and prednisolone (P < or = 0.01). CONCLUSION: The propensity of inferior drug response in mutated B-CLL may reflect a more differentiated disease than in unmutated B-CLL. We conclude that the difference in prognosis between B-CLL cases with unmutated and mutated VH genes could not be explained by difference in cellular drug resistance."
3395	"Exaggerated reactions to insect bites are characteristic of patients with haemoproliferative disorders, particularly chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Skin lesions usually appear after the diagnosis of leukaemia and seem unrelated to laboratory findings, disease course or therapy. Rarely, the eruption may precede the diagnosis of the haematologic malignancy. The patients usually do not recall of insect bites, and the diagnosis may require histological and laboratory investigations to exclude specific lesions or autoimmune bullous diseases. Lesions may run a chronic course and represent a therapeutic challenge. Here, we  report an adult patient with CLL who developed itchy recurrent papulovesicular and bullous lesions. Differential diagnosis was made with cutaneous specific lesions of CLL, bullous pemphigoid and pemphigus vulgaris, but laboratory and histological investigations confirmed the diagnosis of an insect bite reaction. The patient was treated with oral H1 anti-histamines and topical corticosteroids  under occlusion, with marked improvement after 10 days."
3396	"Alemtuzumab (MabCampath) is a humanized rat monoclonal antibody that targets the  CD52 antigen. It has been approved for the treatment of patients with resistant chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Measuring plasma/serum levels of alemtuzumab is important for optimizing the dosing and scheduling of therapy; however, current assays in serum or plasma, based on the capture of alemtuzumab using CD52, are complicated and difficult to adapt for high throughput testing. We developed a simple sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure  alemtuzumab that takes advantage of the remaining rat sequence in alemtuzumab. Using specific anti-rat immunoglobulin (Ig) antibodies (absorbed against human Ig), alemtuzumab levels were measured in the serum and plasma of patients treated with alemtuzumab. Levels were similar between plasma and serum samples, in fresh  samples and samples stored at 4 degrees C for 24 h, but were significantly lower  in samples stored at room temperature for 24h. The assay was successfully used to determine serum alemtuzumab pre- and post-treatment. This assay is simple and adaptable for high throughput testing, with a limit of detection of 0.05 microg/ml and a coefficient of variation of +/-12.5%. No false positivity was observed in >200 samples tested. This validated assay should help optimize the dosing and scheduling of alemtuzumab therapy. The underlying principles are also  applicable to the measurement of other humanized antibodies using an appropriate  anti-Ig."
3397	"In the present work we investigated the role and biological significance of mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK) in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  (B-CLL). The MAPK p38 was constitutively activated in B-CLL, but not in normal peripheral B cells. In addition, we demonstrated that the upstream kinases of p38, MKK3/6 were also constitutively activated in B-CLL cells. Furthermore, we determined by EMSA that the p38 MAP kinase pathway was not linked to the constitutive high expression of NF-kappaB, a critical survival factor of B-CLL cells. Recently, it has been shown that serum levels of angiogenic factors like VEGF, bFGF and MMP-9 are elevated in the serum of CLL patients and correlate with an unfavorable prognosis. We showed that the constitutive expression of MMP-9 was dependent on p38-activity and inhibition of p38 strongly downregulated MMP-9 expression. Coculture of B-CLL cells and stromal cells can protect spontaneous apoptosis of leukemic B cells. To determine the role of permanently activated p38 and MMP-9 expression, we cocultured B-CLL cells with bone marrow stromal cells. Survival of B-CLL cells on stroma was severely impaired when p38 was inhibited. Furthermore, blockade of MMP-9 activity also antagonized the antiapoptotic effect of stromal cells."
3398	"In chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells, functional impairment of the p53 pathway is detectable by Western blotting as impaired up-regulation of p21 (a transcriptional target of p53) in response to ionizing radiation (IR). The type A defect is characterized by baseline p53 overexpression and is associated with TP53 mutation. The type B defect is characterized by impaired IR-induced p53 up-regulation and is associated with inactivation of the ataxia telangiectasia-mutated gene (ATM). Both abnormalities are strongly associated with adverse clinical outcome. In the present study, flow cytometry was found to  be an effective alternative to Western blotting in the detection of p53 dysfunction in CLL."
3399	"To enhance the poor antigen-presenting capacity of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL), CD40 triggering has been considered as an active immunotherapy. However, CD40 stimulation also has an anti-apoptotic effect and may further impair the dysregulated response of B-CLL to apoptotic stimuli. Therefore, we measured the expression of virtually all regulators of apoptosis before and after CD40 stimulation. These findings were correlated with sensitivity for chemotherapy- and death-receptor-induced apoptosis and T-cell-mediated killing. CD40 stimulation enhanced the constitutive anti-apoptotic profile of B-CLL cells by upregulation of Bcl-xL and Bfl-1 and downregulation of the BH3-only protein Harakiri. Unexpectedly, the BH3-only protein Bid was strongly induced. Functionally, CD40-stimulated B-CLL cells became resistant to drug-induced apoptosis and, despite upregulation of CD95 and  Bid, were not sensitive to CD95L. In contrast, autologous T cell killing, triggered by loading CLL cells with viral (CMV) peptides, was very efficient both before and after CD40 stimulation. Upon CTL interaction, CLL targets underwent mitochondrial depolarization and caspase-3 activation. Thus, despite an increased anti-apoptotic profile, CD40 triggered B-CLL cells remain excellent targets for resident cytotoxic T cells. These data support therapeutic exploitation of CD40 stimulation in B-CLL, provided that a strong CTL component is induced."
3400	"The tumour suppressor gene p53 is the most commonly mutated gene in solid tumours. Although less common in haematological malignancies, 10-15% of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cases carry a p53 mutation. Recently, the compound P53-dependent reactivation and induction of massive apoptosis (PRIMA-1)  has been shown to induce cytotoxic effects and apoptosis in human tumour cells by restoration of the transcriptional activity of mutated p53. This is believed to be mediated by a change in the conformation of mutated p53 protein, restoring DNA binding and activation of p53 target genes. We studied the effects of PRIMA-1 and commonly used anti-leukaemic drugs on B-CLL cells from 14 patients with and without hemizygous p53 deletion. Cells obtained from peripheral blood or bone marrow were exposed to PRIMA-1 and fludarabine alone or in combination. PRIMA-1 showed cytotoxic effects on B-CLL cells from samples with and without hemizygous  p53 deletion. Furthermore, conventional B-CLL drugs were less effective in cell samples with hemizygous p53 deletion and the response depended on the size of the p53 deleted clone. Finally, we found evidence for synergistic and additive effects of PRIMA-1 in combination with fludarabine."
3401	"OBJECTIVE: To document the clinical and haematological features of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) in Central Africans. DESIGN: Prospective descriptive analysis. SETTING: Tertiary referral teaching hospitals. SUBJECTS: 48 Zimbabweans and 27 Malawians formed the basis of this analysis. RESULTS: There were 75 patients (40 males and 35 females) studied and their ages  ranged from 32 to 78 years with a mean +/- s.d. of 56.8 +/- 10.1 years. The peak  age incidence of 26.7% occurred between 60 to 64 year old and 21.3% were below 50 years. The major clinical findings included: splenomegaly (68%); hepatomegaly (37.3%); anaemia (34.7%); lymphadenopathy (33.3%) and nine (12%) patients were diagnosed incidentally. The majority of patients (78.7%) had Rai stage III and IV and only seven (9.3%) patients were in stage 0. Of the 32 patients treated with chemotherapy, 25.9% and 59.3% achieved complete or partial remissions respectively. Six patients were still alive after a follow up period of a mean +/- s.d of 39.3 +/- 24.4 months; five were lost to follow up after a mean +/- s.d period of 28.6 +/- 18.8 months and 16 were dead after a mean +/- s.d. period of 25.7 +/- 19.1 months. The main causes of death in the treated group were septicaemia in six, pneumonia in four and tuberculosis in three. In the untreated group of 43 patients, two refused therapy, four died shortly after diagnosis and  37 were lost to follow up. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS: Although the study has disclosed that CLL is not rare in central Africans and its presentations are similar to cases reported in the literature, the majority of patients seek medical treatment late. Optimal therapy is impossible due to lack of chemotherapy and supportive services..Therefore, it is recommended that tertiary referral centers in African  health systems should be equipped for better management of CLL patients."
3402	"In chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) bone marrow trephine biopsy (BMT) is not required for diagnosis but can have a significant prognostic value and can be used for the detection of the minimal residual disease (MRD) and for assessment of the effectiveness of the treatment applied. The aim of the study was to evaluate the morphological changes in bone marrow after treatment with purine nucleoside analogues cladribine and fludarabine. Bone marrow trephine biopsy was  taken routinely from 15 patients with CLL. Bone marrow trephine biopsy was performed on every patient before as well as after chemotherapy. The number of cell elements of the marrow (the degree of atrophy), the patterns of bone marrow  infiltration, the presence of reticulin and collagen fibres and the disturbances  in bone marrow stroma were assessed. The infiltration of bone marrow by neoplastic cells was observed in all the patients before administration of chemotherapy. The infiltration was followed by an increase in the number of reticulin fibres. After the treatment a regression of the reticulin fibres was observed with the lessening of the infiltration. After the treatment the levels of marrow infiltrate were decreased. Increased hypoplasia of the bone marrow was  observed after the chemotherapy."
3403	"BACKGROUND: External beam radiotherapy and beta radioimmunotherapy (RIT) are effective treatments for lymphoid malignancies. The development of RIT with alpha emitters is attractive because of the high linear energy transfer (LET) and short path length, allowing higher tumour cell kill and lower toxicity to healthy tissues. AIM: To assess the binding of rituximab to samples of B cell chronic lymphocytic  leukaemia (B-CLL) and splenic lymphoma with villous lymphocytes (SLVL), and to evaluate the induction of apoptosis by conventional therapies as well as with Bi  conjugated to rituximab. METHOD: 213Bi was eluted from a 225Ac generator and conjugated to CD20 antibody (rituximab) with CHX-A''-DTPA as chelator. Binding assays with 213Bi-rituximab were correlated to antibody binding capacity obtained by flow cytometry. Apoptosis was scored by flow cytometric analyses of the cells stained with annexin V-FITC and 7-amino-actinomycin D. RESULTS: Binding of 213Bi-rituximab was significantly lower for B-CLL compared to SLVL samples (12+/-3 and 42+/-10 213Bi atoms per cell, respectively, at 370 kBq.ml(-1)). The induction of apoptosis did not differ significantly between the  two groups (B-CLL and SLVL) after external gamma irradiation or treatment with methylprednisolone and fludarabine (17+/-12% and 18+/-11%; 23+/-14% and 21+/-12%; 9+/-9% and 11+/-8%, respectively; all results expressed as percentages of all cells). Rituximab conjugated or not to 213Bi induced significantly more apoptosis in SLVL (42+/-19% and 42+/-17%) compared to B-CLL samples (27+/-12% and 6+/-8%). CONCLUSION: Binding assays confirm that SLVL samples present more CD20 antigens compared to B-CLL samples. Conventional therapies such as fludarabine, methylprednisolone or external gamma irradiation induce similar responses in the  two populations but SLVL samples present higher sensitivity towards 213Bi-rituximab. These data are in favour of alpha-RIT in SLVL patients."
3406	"The simultaneous presentation of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and nephrotic syndrome is described. The leukaemia responded to cytotoxic therapy but prednisolone was required to achieve remission of the nephrotic syndrome. The nephrotic syndrome relapsed when the leukaemia again became active and the white  cell count rose above 20x10(9)/l, and it remitted again with treatment. The relationship between the two diseases is discussed."
3407	"PURPOSE: Increased expression of the adhesion molecule CD44 has been associated with an unfavourable clinical outcome in lymphomas. We evaluated the prognostic value of soluble CD44 in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) and analysed the source and regulation of CD44 secretion in B-CLL clones in vitro. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Levels of soluble CD44 standard (sCD44s) and of the soluble variant isoform CD44v6 (sCD44v6) were analysed by enzyme linked immuno sorbent assay. Highly purified B-CLL cells (98% CD19 + CD3 - cells) were stimulated in vitro by different combinations of thioredoxin (Trx), Staphylococcus aureus Cowan strain 1 (SAC), IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and by anti-CD40 mAbs presented on irradiated CD32L cells. RESULTS: Serum levels of sCD44s and of sCD44v6 are significantly elevated in B-CLL patients (n = 90) in comparison with normal persons (n = 44) (P < 0.001). Elevated levels of sCD44s and sCD44v6 are associated with an advanced disease as  reflected by an extended lymph node involvement (P < 0.02), an advanced Binet (P  < 0.03) and Rai stage (P < 0.04) and chemotherapy requirement (P < 0.02). High levels of sCD44s are associated with high leukocyte counts (P < 0.04) and increased sCD44v6 is significantly associated with splenomegaly (P < 0.002). In B-CLL sCD44s as well as sCD44v6 is shed from leukaemia cells as shown by in vitro cultures. Stimulation of B-CLL clones results in a proliferation-associated increased secretion of sCD44s (rho = 0.7; P = 0.0001) and of sCD44v6 (rho = 0.5;  P = 0.005). B-CLL clones from advanced stage patients are characterised by an increased capacity for proliferation and CD44 production in comparison with early stage patients. CONCLUSIONS: Both sCD44s and sCD44v6 represent a reliable prognostic marker in B-CLL and may be involved in the pathogenesis of B-CLL."
3409	"BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab (MabCampath; ILEX Pharmaceuticals, Geneva, Switzerland) is a humanised monoclonal antibody directed against CD52. It belongs to a new group of monoclonal antibodies with anti-neoplastic effects used in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) either as first-line treatment or in those cases resistant to alkylating drugs. Paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP) is a severe mucocutaneus disease mostly associated with B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Independent of the course of the underlying malignancy, this disease is often resistant to conventional immunosuppressive treatment and may lead to death as a  result of infectious complications. CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case where an ongoing long-term remission of PNP has been induced by alemtuzumab in a patient with an underlying B-CLL. A 68-yr-old male with a 4-yr history of B-CLL presented with a widespread blistering eruption on the extremities and trunk and a severe stomatitis. The diagnosis of PNP relied on the clinical, histological and direct immunofluorescence findings. Despite intensive treatment strategies with various  immunosuppressive drugs and antibiotics, blisters continued to develop and the patient was deteriorating. When treated with alemtuzumab the mucocutaneous lesions healed almost completely within a few weeks and the patients' general condition improved significantly. After 12 wk of treatment with alemtuzumab, the  CLL infiltration of the bone marrow previously quantified at 75-80% remitted completely. Twelve months later, the patient was still in remission with only a small residual ulceration on the lip and one on the penis. CONCLUSIONS: Based on this case report we recommend treatment with alemtuzumab to severe cases of PNP in CLL. However, further follow-up of this case is needed in  order to assess the long-term effect of alemtuzumab treatment in PNP."
3410	"Engagement of the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) by crosslinking of the surface immunoglobulin (sIg) homodimer was studied for recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated gene transfer into B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells. Leukemic cells obtained from 20 patients were stimulated with anti-sIg-directed antibodies and transduced with rAAV vectors coding for enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) (AAV/EGFP) or CD40L (AAV/CD40L). Transduction of B-CLL cells was enhanced after BCR engagement compared to unstimulated controls (P=0.0356). BCR crosslinking induced a significant, dose- and time-dependent upregulation of heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG), the primary receptor for AAV, on B-CLL cells (mean: 38.2 versus 1.7%; P=0.0006). A correlation of HSPG expression after BCR crosslinking with transduction efficiency by AAV/EGFP (P=0.0153) and AAV/CD40L (P=0.0347) was observed. High expression of zeta-associated protein 70 (ZAP-70) in B-CLL cells correlated with a better transduction efficiency by AAV/EGFP (P<0.0001) and AAV/CD40L (P=0.002), respectively: 48 h after transduction of ZAP-70-positive samples, transgene expression was seen in a mean of 33.8% (s.e.m. 3.7%) and 28.9% (s.e.m. 6.7%) of cells, respectively, and could be specifically blocked by heparin, a soluble competitor of HSPG (P<0.0001). In summary, engagement of the BCR on ZAP-70 positive B-CLL cells allows efficient rAAV-mediated gene delivery."
3411	"AIM: To determine the efficacy of flow cytometry (FC) in the assessment of bone marrow (BM) in B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL). FC is a common practice, but  is far from being validated. METHODS AND RESULTS: Morphological analysis and FC immunophenotyping were performed on 421 samples. T-cell lymphomas, Hodgkin's disease, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and hairy cell leukaemia were not included in the study. Clonality was assessed by the standard kappa/lambda/CD19 test. Aberrant immunophenotypes present in the B-cell subpopulation were also investigated. A double-step procedure was employed in all cases to increase the sensitivity of the FC procedure. Of 380 evaluable samples, 188 corresponded to follicular lymphoma (FL), 58 to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), 57 to mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), seven to Burkitt's lymphoma and the remaining 70 samples to other low-grade lymphomas. Morphological marrow infiltration was found in 148 cases, and flow immunophenotyping identified 138 cases with BM involvement. A concordance between the two methods was detected in 298 cases (79%). There was a  discordance in 82 cases (21%): morphology positive/FC negative in 46 cases and morphology negative/FC positive in 36 (61% of all cases with discordance were from FL). There was no difference in outcome when patients with discordances were compared with patients without discordances. CONCLUSIONS: Most samples showed concordance between morphological and FC results. FC identified BM involvement in the absence of morphological infiltration. Morphology/FC discordance seems to have no influence on the outcome of FL patients."
3412	"In the present work we have quantified some enzymatic activities, related to NAD+ metabolism, in lymphocytes of healthy donors and of patients affected by B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL): NADase activity for NAD+ degradation and NMN adenylyltransferase (NMNAT) activity for NAD+ biosynthesis. Most of the samples under investigation (12 B-CLL patients and 12 healthy donors) presented the enzymatic activities assayed. No significant differences in terms of specific activity have been found between ill and healthy subjects. Nevertheless by expressing the activity as mU/10(9) cells (nmol min(-1) 10(9) cells) we observed  significantly higher values of both enzymatic activities, involved in the NAD+ metabolism, in healthy donors with respect to the B-CLL patients."
3413	"INTRODUCTION: 2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine (cladribine or 2-CdA) is a purine analogue that has been used successfully in hairy cell leukaemia (HCL). Moreover, it has been increasingly used to treat chronic lymphoproliferative syndromes and paediatric acute myeloid leukaemia. Cutaneous side-effects associated with this drug have seldom been described in cases of HCL. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We describe three patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia that presented generalized skin eruptions after treatment with 2-CdA. RESULTS: All patients had advanced disease, receiving 2-CdA as a second or third  line chemotherapy. Skin lesions were severe and chemotherapy had to be discontinued. Histological examination of skin biopsies showed an eosinophil-rich infiltrate with flame figures, similar to what is observed in Wells' syndrome (eosinophilic cellulitis). Corticosteroids were effective to control the eruptions. CONCLUSIONS: Cutaneous adverse reactions associated with 2-CdA have seldom been observed in the treatment of HCL. However, as this purine analogue has been used  in more advanced cases these may be more frequent and severe. The pathophysiology of these lesions is unclear, but it is probably related to drug-induced change in T-cell imbalance in severely immunosuppressed patients."
3414	"We evaluated the prognostic features of 384 asymptomatic IgM-monoclonal gammopathies (aIgM-MGs) and 74 IgM-related disorders (IgM-RDs), two clinically distinct groups as proposed by the Second International Workshop on Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (WM). The cumulative probability of evolution to lymphoid malignancy at 5 and 10 years was 8% (95% CI, 5-13%) and 29% (95% CI, 21-38%), respectively, in aIgM-MGs; it was 9% (95% CI, 4-20%) and 16% (95% CI, 7-31%), respectively, in IgM-RDs (P=0.26). At a median follow-up of 45 months (12-233), 45 aIgM-MGs (11.7%) evolved to symptomatic WM (n=41), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) (n=2), IgM multiple myeloma (n=1), and primary amyloidosis (n=1). At a median follow-up of 60 months (13-195), seven IgM-RDs (9.5%) evolved to symptomatic WM (n=6), and B-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (n=1). At univariate analysis, in aIgM-MGs bone marrow lymphoplasmacytic infiltration, high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), haemoglobin level, IgM size, and lymphocytosis significantly correlated with evolution probability. At multivariate analysis, the latter two parameters strongly correlated with prognosis, haemoglobin being associated with a trend for a higher progression risk. In IgM-RDs IgM size, neutropenia, lymphocytosis, detectable Bence Jones proteinuria, and high ESR were associated with evolution probability. In conclusion, asymptomatic IgM-MGs and IgM-RDs are distinct clinical entities with  similar probability of transformation to lymphoid malignancy."
3418	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells express low levels of co-stimulatory molecules and therefore fail to induce activation and differentiation of tumour-specific T cells. We have shown that patients with B-CLL have considerably expanded numbers of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactive CD8(+) T cells. This study demonstrated that B-CLL cells loaded with CMV peptide not only promoted the ex vivo expansion of autologous, in vivo-generated virus-specific T cells, but also constituted excellent target cells for these cytotoxic T cells, even without ex vivo re-stimulation. Directing virus-specific  T cells to B-CLL may overcome the inadequate immunostimulatory capacity of these  cells, which could be exploited for T-cell mediated immunotherapy."
3419	"B-cell lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) is an indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and the most frequent leukaemia. However, after many years, the incurable disease CLL has again become an exciting subject for research. Recently, both serum and molecular markers have been identified which could be used to predict the outcome of patients in early stages. With the advent of microarray analysis, novel diagnostic and therapeutic targets have been discovered. Here we describe the molecular strategies for target identification and validation. An evaluation of some established, and the most promising novel factors, with their diagnostic and prognostic applications is given. Potential therapeutic target molecules and their inhibitors are reviewed."
3421	"AIMS: To report five malignant trichogenic tumours arising in longstanding, previously benign adnexal neoplasms through malignant transformation. Malignant trichogenic adnexal tumours are extremely rare neoplasms. METHODS AND RESULTS: The patients were between 55 years and 79 years of age. Three of the tumours were located on the arms, two on the face. Three of our patients had a history of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, one patient had a history of colonic adenocarcinoma. The duration of the tumour nodules was reported as between 20 and 40 years before sudden changes occurred. These changes included rapid growth, pain, itching, ulceration and bleeding. Histologically, all tumours were well circumscribed and encapsulated. There was a residual benign tumour component and morphological signs such as bone formation, dystrophic calcification and sclerosis suggesting long duration of the lesions. All patients except for one, who refused further clinical investigation due to her advanced age of 79 years, had an underlying systemic malignancy. CONCLUSIONS: The growth stimulus in these benign adnexal neoplasms resulting in malignant transformation may be attributed to the acquisition of additional genetic events or to immunosuppression due to an underlying neoplastic disease. Therefore, patients with systemic diseases or malignancy should be carefully examined and followed for sudden changes in pre-existing benign cutaneous tumours."
3422	"Cases of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) with mutated (M) IgV(H) genes have a better prognosis than unmutated (UM) cases. We analysed the IgV(H) mutational status of B-CLL according to the features of a canonical somatic hypermutation (SHM) process, correlating this data with survival. In a series of  141 B-CLLs, 124 cases were examined for IgV(H) gene per cent mutations and skewing of replacement/silent mutations in the framework/complementarity-determining regions as evidence of antigen-driven selection; this identified three B-CLL subsets: significantly mutated (sM), with  evidence of antigen-driven selection, not significantly mutated (nsM) and UM, without such evidence and IgV(H) gene per cent mutations above or below the 2% cut-off. sM B-CLL patients had longer survival within the good prognosis subgroup that had more than 2% mutations of IgV(H) genes. sM, nsM and UM B-CLL were also characterized for the biased usage of IgV(H) families, intraclonal IgV(H) gene diversification, preference of mutations to target-specific nucleotides or hotspots, and for the expression of enzymes involved in SHM (translesion DNA polymerase zeta and eta and activation-induced cytidine deaminase). These findings indicate the activation of a canonical SHM process in nsM and sM B-CLLs  and underscore the role of the antigen in defining the specific clinical and biological features of B-CLL."
3423	"The purpose of this literature review was to identify and summarize published studies describing the epidemiology and management of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia represents 22-30% of all leukaemia cases with a worldwide incidence projected to be between < 1 and 5.5 per 100,000  people. Australia, the USA, Ireland and Italy have the highest CLL incidence rates. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia presents in adults, at higher rates in males than in females and in whites than in blacks. Median age at diagnosis is 64-70 years. Five-year survival rate in the USA is 83% for those < 65 years old and 68% for those 65 + years old. Hereditary and genetic links have been noted. Persons with close relatives who have CLL have an increased risk of developing it themselves. No single environmental risk factor has been found to be predictive for CLL. Patients are usually diagnosed at routine health care visits because of  elevated lymphocyte counts. The most common presenting symptom of CLL is lymphadenopathy, while difficulty exercising and fatigue are common complaints. Most patients do not receive treatment after initial diagnosis unless presenting  with clear pathologic conditions. Pharmacological therapy may consist of monotherapy or combination therapy involving glucocorticoids, alkylating agents,  and purine analogs. Fludarabine may be the most effective single drug treatment currently available. Combination therapy protocols have not been shown to be more effective than fludarabine alone. As no cure is yet available, a strong unmet medical need exists for innovative new therapies. Experimental treatments under development include allogeneic stem cell transplant, mini-allogeneic transplants, and monoclonal antibodies (e.g. alemtuzumab against CD52; rituximab against CD20)."
3424	"Changes in the cytokine network may be responsible for malignant cell accumulation in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). Among different cytokines of question interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) is indicated to prevent malignant cells from entering apoptosis. The aim of the study was to determine IFN-gamma production capacity of T-cell subsets and B lymphocytes in B-CLL patients in comparison with healthy individuals and during disease progression. Forty patients with newly diagnosed, untreated B-CLL and 20 healthy individuals were studied. The two- and three-colour flow cytometry techniques were used to detect intracellular cytokine expression. We detected statistically significantly higher percentage of both CD3+/CD4+/IFN-gamma+ and CD3+/CD8+/IFN-gamma+ in patients than in controls (P < 0.001 in both cases). Moreover the percentage of CD3+/CD8+/IFN-gamma+ cells correlated with stage of the disease (R = 0.39, P = 0.01) and parameters of disease progression like lymphocyte count and total tumour mass score (R = 0.33, P = 0.03 and R = 0.31, P = 0.04, respectively). By contrast, the percentage of CD19+/IFN-gamma+ cells in B-CLL group was lower than  in controls (P < 0.01). These findings indicate that T-cell populations rather than malignant B cells are the source of IFN-gamma in B-CLL patients. The subset  of CD3+/CD8+ cells expressing IFN-gamma seems to play a special role in the disease progression and more precise investigation should elucidate its role as a prognostic marker in B-CLL and a target for therapeutic strategies."
3425	"Despite the lack of long-term survival data, the impressive results obtained with fludarabine- and rituximab-based therapies have altered the philosophy of the management of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). Therapy with chemoimmunotherapy appears to give higher responses with more patients achieving  complete remission and some molecular remission. This may potentially translate into improved disease-free survival, and potentially a 'cure'. Treatment options  for patients who develop resistance to fludarabine continue to be limited. This review summarises current chemo-, immuno-, and chemoimmunotherapeutic regimens that are being currently evaluated in patients with CLL."
3426	"Prolymphocytic leukaemia is a rare subtype of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Three such cases are reported here along with clinical details. All these cases were seen in males above 5th decade of life. These patients showed moderate to massive splenomegaly, inconspicuous lymphadenopathy in two cases and one with minimal lymphadenopathy. Peripheral smear showed high leucocyte count with more than 55% of prolymphocytes. Bone marrow aspiration showed diffuse involvement; and in one with minimal lymphadenopathy, lymph node aspiration showed prolymphocytes. All the three patients died within a year after diagnosis."
3427	"We aimed to investigate the incidence and density of Demodex folliculorum in adults with leukaemia or lymphoma. Fifty patients with haematological malignancy  and 50 healthy controls were studied. Patients had been diagnosed with acute lymphocytic leukaemia (12%), acute myelocytic leukaemia (32%), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (4%), chronic myelocytic leukaemia (10%), Hodgkin's lymphoma (4%) or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (38%). Standardized skin surface biopsies were taken and > or = 5 living parasites/cm2 of skin was defined as an infestation. The difference in infestation rates between patients and controls was statistically significant. The highest incidences of D. folliculorum were found in patients with acute myelocytic leukaemia (10%), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (6%), acute lymphocytic leukaemia (4%), chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (4%) and chronic myelocytic leukaemia (4%). Demodicidosis should be included in the differential diagnosis of facial eruptions in patients with haematological malignancies who are receiving chemotherapy, and a standardized skin surface biopsy should be performed."
3428	"Nucleotides (NTPs and dNTPs) have been measured in patient-derived chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cells stimulated with TPA plus ionomycin and then exposed to cladribine, fludarabine or deoxycoformycin (1 microM, 16 h). dNTPs were not measurable in 10(8) unstimulated CLL cells which are quiescent. Time-dependent changes in nucleotides in CLL cells showed that the mechanism of action changed as the drug triphosphate accumulated. dCf induced substantial accumulation of dATP in CLL cells in culture, and similar levels of dATP in the same patient during subsequent treatment with dCf. Determination of "metabolic response patterns" of nucleotides in CLL cells treated with drugs might distinguish patients with susceptible and refractory CLL prior to chemotherapy."
3429	"The aim of the study was to compare the angiogenic status, potential qualitative  differences in microvessels and carbonic anhydrase IX expression in bone-marrow (BM) metastases and different haematological tumours at time of diagnosis. The microvessel density (MVD), endothelial-cell proliferation (ECP) and carbonic anhydrase IX (CA IX) immunoreactivity were determined on 210 trephine biopsies from 57 patients with multiple myeloma (MM), 13 with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), 48 with chronic myeloproliferative syndrome (CMPS), 26 with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), 25 with epithelial BM metastases, 18 with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) and from a control group composed  of 23 patients without haematological neoplasm. There was an increased MVD and ECP in epithelial BM metastases, MM, AML, CMPS and in a part of CLL. While an ECP greater than 0 was detected in 72% of MM, 75% of CMPS and 92% of AML, it was invariably observed (100%) in the BM metastases. The absence of ECP together with a MVD comparable with the control group in our MGUS cases supports the view that  MGUS is a pre-angiogenic condition. Qualitative differences in microvessels were  associated with growth patterns in MM and CLL and were observed between the different entities of CMPS. In one-third of the epithelial BM metastases, there was a focal CA IX immunoreactivity, which was never observed in the haematological diseases."
3430	"BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a malignancy characterized by  clonal expansion of B lymphocytes with distinct morphology and immunophenotype. The dermatological literature relating to CLL is sparse. A global descriptive survey of a large number of CLL patients has not previously been published. OBJECTIVES: To report the spectrum of dermatological conditions seen in a large series of CLL patients. METHODS: Skin complications in patients with established CLL were identified retrospectively from clinical and photographic records, principally a database of over 750 consecutive cases. These events were classified, enumerated and compared. RESULTS: Forty patients with 125 skin manifestations were identified and studied. Forty-one manifestations had documented clinical or histological atypia. In 21 of these 41 complications there had been no prior immunosuppressive therapy. We observed that cutaneous malignancies frequently presented atypically both clinically and histologically. There were 18 patients with 56 instances of basal  cell carcinoma (BCC) or squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and clinical atypia was more common with SCC than with BCC. Other cutaneous findings included varicella zoster (n = 6), leukaemia cutis (n = 3), acute graft-versus-host disease (n = 5), cutaneous drug eruptions (n = 9), multiple warts (n = 3), herpes simplex (n = 3), cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (n = 2), eosinophilic folliculitis (n = 2), malignant melanoma (n = 2) and Merkel cell tumour (n = 2). CONCLUSIONS: We have identified a range of dermatological conditions in CLL patients, with a tendency to atypical presentations. The atypia was independent of prior chemotherapy."
3432	"Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most potent antigen-presenting cells and are therefore an attractive option as antigen carriers in vaccination protocols. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) represents a potential good target for these  approaches. The present study was designed to investigate the feasibility of generating in vitro fully functional DCs from peripheral blood (PB) monocytes of  CLL patients at different phases of the disease. Although functional DCs could be obtained from CLL samples, in patients with active disease the expression of some co-stimulatory molecules appeared to be reduced. In contrast, DCs from CLL patients in remission showed no difference from those of normal controls. Moreover, patients with active disease produced DCs with reduced allostimulatory  ability when compared with normal ones, whereas the functional capacities appeared to be restored in CLL DCs from remission patients. To more precisely assess the possible inhibitory effect of CLL cells on DC development, the influence of autologous leukaemic CD19(+) cells on the generation of monocyte-derived CLL DCs in vitro was investigated. The addition of CLL neoplastic cells markedly affected monocyte-derived DC maturation. In conclusion, monocytes from CLL patients with active disease give rise to DCs, which show phenotypic and functional defects that are not observed in remission CLL patients. These results need to be taken into account in the design of DC-based immunotherapeutic approaches in CLL."
3433	"The natural development of cancers as well as the measures to fight the disease are often long processes that require decades of follow up. Available information on long-term survival will thus often appear outdated and irrelevant. A few years ago, period-survival analysis was proposed as a means to obtain more up-to-date information on long-term cancer survival. This article assesses period and conventional cohort-based survival analyses on their ability to predict future survival. Based on historical data from the nationwide Swedish Cancer Registry 5-, 10- and 15-year relative survival actually observed for patients diagnosed at one particular point in time are compared to the most recent period and cohort-based survival estimates available at that point in time. The study shows  that period analysis can, in most cases, be used to provide more up-to-date long-term estimates of cancer survival. Period analysis reduces the time lag of the survival estimates by some 5-10 years for all cancers combined and especially affects the survival estimates for small intestine carcinoids, meningioma and intracranial neurinoma of the brain, non-seminoma testicular cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and Hodgkin's lymphoma."
3434	"To further characterise the genetic background of the two closely related B-lymphocytic malignancies hairy cell leukaemia (HCL), and splenic marginal zone  lymphoma (SMZL) we have identified characteristic copy number imbalances by comparative genomic hybridisation (CGH). Based on these findings, areas of special interest were fine mapped, and relevant probes constructed for use in interphase-fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) investigations. Thus, using  the CGH data from 52 HCL and 61 SMZL patients, we identified the characteristic profiles of copy number imbalances for both diseases. These were a gain of 5q13-31 (19%) and loss of 7q22-q35 (6%) for HCL, and gain of 3q25 (28%), loss of  7q31 (16%), and gain of 12q15 (16%) for SMZL. A partial loss of 7q unusual for low-malignant B-cell diseases was found to be common to the two diseases. This loss was therefore fine mapped with BAC/PAC clones. Fine mapping revealed that in SMZL the minimal lost region covers 11.4 Mb spanning from 7q31.33 to 7q33 located between sequence tagged site (STS)-markers SHGC-3275 and D7S725. This area was distinct from the commonly deleted 7q region of myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukaemia (MDS/AML). A FISH probe specific for the 7q region was constructed. Using this probe in an interphase-FISH investigation we showed the minimal lost 7q-region of HCL and SMZL to be one and the same. In one HCL case, this investigation furthermore showed the extent of the deleted region to be below the detection limit of CGH, whereas interphase-FISH screening of 36 chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) cases showed no deletion of the 7q area. In conclusion, we have identified characteristic profiles of copy number imbalances  in HCL and SMZL and fine mapped the minimal extent of a commonly lost 7q area of  special interest. We hypothesise that this region may contain (a) gene(s) important for the pathology of HCL and SMZL."
3435	"Three adult dogs with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) were successfully treated with melphalan and prednisolone. Based on the immunophenotypic analysis of leukaemic cells, two dogs were diagnosed with B cell CLL and one dog was tentatively diagnosed as having T cell CLL. One dog with B cell CLL had IgM monoclonal gammopathy. The clinical signs and haematological abnormalities associated with CLL in the three dogs improved with the administration of cytoreductive melphalan (3 to 5 mg/m2/day) and prednisolone (4.3 to 30 mg/m2/day) for eight to 210 days. There were no severe adverse effects except a mild increase in plasma alkaline phosphatase activity. Melphalan and prednisolone therapy may achieve remission with few side effects in dogs with CLL."
3436	"B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a heterogenous disease with disturbed apoptosis in which the precise molecular defects leading to this pathogenesis are still unclear. The p73 gene (a p53 homologue) encodes 2 proteins with opposing functions. TAp73 induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, whilst the oncogenic deltaNp73 inhibits both TAp73 and p53 induced apoptosis. Microsatellite analysis  was performed to investigate the p73 gene locus in B-CLL. Moreover, we investigated the expression of the TAp73 and deltaNp73 variant by measuring the mRNA transcripts in 51 B-CLL patients by real-time RT-PCR. And in addition, protein expression was analyzed by Western blotting technique in 20 B-CLL patients. There was no evidence of clonal loss of heterozygosity at 1p36, the p73 gene locus in B-CLL patients. The real time RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression of both p73 gene variants was much higher in leukemic cells compared to controls. In 17/20 (85%) patients deltaNp73 and TAp73 protein were present. The observed increase of expression of the antiapoptotic deltaNp73 variant in neoplastic cells may lead to a functional p53 inactivation. This mechanism might  be relevant in malignancies with an intact p53 gene but disturbed apoptosis mechanisms such as in B-CLL."
3437	"The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of a combination of fludarabine (F) and cyclophosphamide (C) in the treatment of patients with refractory/recurrent B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL). Between November 1999 and December 2001, 63 patients with B-CLL (median age 60 years) received a regimen that consisted of F 25 mg/m2 and C 250 mg/m2, days 1-3, intravenously, every 4 weeks, for a maximum of 6 courses, Response and toxicity were assessed according to current criteria (NCI-WG and WHO). Complete and partial remissions were achieved in 17.5% and 55.6% of patients, respectively; 19% of patients had stable disease and 7.9% of patients showed disease progression. The median follow-up was 16.5 (range 1.5-32) months. The median duration of progression-free survival (PFS) has not been reached among patients treated with FC regimen as second-line therapy. The median PFS was 13 (range 8-26) months in the 19 responding patients treated with FC regimen as third-line  therapy. The most frequent side-effects were neutropenia (45%), thrombocytopenia  (42%) and infections (57%). We conclude that the combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide demonstrated significant efficacy in pretreated, advanced B-CLL  patients, with tolerable toxicity."
